---
title: The Show
date: 2004-09-11T03:57:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2004-09-show
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2004/09/show.html
categories:
  - band

---
Today we did our first march of the show.

Our show is the music of Chuck Mangione. You can find a copy of it to listen to
at [here](http://www.arrangerspublishingcompany.com/cat_theme.php), under,
suitably, “Mangione Magic”. There are four songs: _Mangione Opener_, _Feels So
Good_, _Echano,_ and _El Gato Triste_ (“The Sad Cat”).

We were at an away game today, at Reading. Don’t ask me where that is. I just
know that I got there. The bus driver can worry about how to get there.
Carrying our instruments, we marched away from our buses into, approaching it
from the back, the Reading stadium, a hulking, unimaginative concrete structure
with a view of the field and a nearby street. There was one scoreboard at the
near end of the field. We were on the left side of the stadium, with the
Readingites at the right side. Finneytown scored first, amazingly. Everyone
cheered at our touchdown. I’ll bet they would’ve cheered harder if they’d known
those were the only seven points we’d get.

We played some stand songs for the first two quarters, and then filed out onto
the track to get on the field. In marching band, you don’t just walk onto the
field. You line up at the back and march onto it. We did that, and then drum
major Chad Rogers gave us our dups, to begin playing and marching around.

Marching isn’t nearly as easy as it looks, and it probably looks pretty hard.
There are about nineteen things you have to be considering simultaneously at
any given moment, some of which are: keeping the right tempo, not missing any
notes, whether you’re in step, whether you’re in phase, what the form is
looking like, where you’re about to go, what size steps to take, your roll
step, and whether that noise behind you is a train or just a really loud tuba.
As it turned out, it was a train, rolling along on a track that’s apparently
somewhere very close to the field. The train blocked out about the last half of
_El Gato Triste_, but I don’t think it had anything to do with me messing up
right up near the end. I just forgot what was happening, forgot where I was
supposed to be going. But all in all I did fairly well; perhaps not as well as
I’ll have to do in the contest tomorrow, but fairly well. Final football game
score: Us, 7; Them, 30.

Yep, we get to go to a contest in Oxford tomorrow, rather than sit on our butts
like we ought to be allowed to do after the first show. I have to be up by
1340\. This will be a challenge. I’m tired. Good night.
