---
title: The Hike
date: 2004-08-29T04:50:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2004-08-hike
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2004/08/hike.html
categories:
  - creekwalking

---
I got up, if you can believe it, at 8:00 this morning. I was astounded too.
Then I gathered up my provisions, slipped on my shoes, and slipped off into
Congress Run.

The part I’ve already done many times before was the hardest part, because
there the creek hadn’t widened yet. It was about two feet wide. And the woods
were about as thick as a tightly-knit wool sweater just beyond it. However, to
avoid getting my feet wet, sometimes I did have to get up onto the bank. I did
this as seldom as possible, because as soon as I did, I was met by a vast
quantity of webs built by alarmingly large spiders, though they were probably
just regular joes, out to make a bug like the next guy. I promptly got these
webs all in my face, no matter where they were. If they were built on the
ground, they ended up on my face.

After about twenty minutes of that, I finally emerged into a wider spot on the
creek, stationed at a subdivision called Central Park. It has to get wider
because it goes through a huge tunnel there. I went over the tunnel, but I’ve
gone through it before, and I can tell you it’s not fun. It’s a vast hole from
which there is no escape but walking to the other side. It’s an ideal place to
get claustrophobics to Overcome their Fear. From the other side of that tunnel
I walked maybe a couple hundred yards and came to the tunnel under Cross
County. This tunnel is even more enormous than the Central Park one, and to
make matters worse, there’s no way to go over it. The traffic on Cross County
is thick and there’s a fence on the other side. So I had to go through it. And
as I did, I noticed a beep from in my backpack. It was my mom’s cell phone
(which she had insisted I take along) going out of range.

As I walked through it, I mainly stayed quiet. The end never seemed to get any
closer. Foot by foot, I approached the way out, but it sure didn’t seem like
it. Towards the end, I got gutsy and started singing some of my _Carmina
Burana_. Then I noticed the profound echo and started talking to myself to hear
it. I also clapped really loud, and the sound didn’t dissipate for at least
three seconds. If you exploded a firecracker there, it would still be
reverberating the next day.

I didn’t die, and I walked out the tunnel to a newly widened creek. Another
little wash had joined it, turning it, for the first time, into Congress Run in
earnest. I had also gotten to the point on Galbraith where there start to be
houses. I watched the houses pass by and be replaced with new houses as I
trekked through the dry creekbed. Mom called me--the phone was back in
range--and asked just where on the creek I was. I told her. Then I kept
walking.

Eventually I came to Congress Run Apartments, and then left it. About there the
creekbed became incooperative for walking in. I had to get up on the bank every
once in a while to avoid having to walk in water about up to my knees. I tried
that for a little while. And then, then I came to an impasse. It was another
intersection of Congress Run with Cross County, and this time the tunnel wasn’t
big enough to walk through. I came up to the road to have a look around. There
was nothing I could see to help me.

Except crossing the road I had just not gone under. It hadn’t occurred to me as
an option before, because I was still thinking about Cross County, but now that
I saw it, it made perfect sense. I walked leisurely across the street, not
seeing a single car, and promptly found a pitiful little creek that couldn’t’ve
been the majestic Congress Run. Could it? I crossed the street again and sat
down under a bridge to figure it out. I pulled out my print-out of the map. I
puzzled. I couldn’t figure out where I was, because the map had no street
names. Eventually I decided I must be on the right track and went off
downstream, using the term “downstream” loosely, because there was no current
_whatsoever_. I skirted the border of a Horse Boarding place, rounded a corner,
and punctually got lost. There was nothing to see on the banks. The creek
looked dark and forbidding. I came to a spill of something that smelled like
pumice soap, _completely_ stagnant in the water, and decided I’d have to come
up to ground level and have a look around.

I came up behind an enormous, imposing, industrial-white building. At its side
there was a fence, and on the other side of the fence I could see a golf
course. I consulted my map to see just where on the face of the Earth I had
wound up. There was no mention of a huge white building or golf course
anywhere. Clearly the map was out of date. I called Mom and told her my
predicament, whereupon she instructed me to find out where I was by way of the
name of the building. I trekked around the enormous bulk of it and saw a sign
that said, bluntly, “GENERAL POLYMERS”. That was all. Then I walked up the
street, found an “Advance Building Products”, and gave her the address where I
had found myself: 93 Caldwell Drive. I had come a long way, but even though the
map said I could probably get to a railroad without too much difficulty, the
golf course begged otherwise. I told Mom to come and pick me up.

I waited for a while on the steps of Advance Building Products, and we came
home. Then I ate a lot of food, and drank a lot of pop. And that’s all I’m
going to relay for now.

Signing out
