---
title: 3 Travel
date: 2005-07-18T04:43:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2005-07-3-travel
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2005/07/3-travel.html
categories:
  - family
tags:
  - Crowduck

---
By the time I got to put on the flannel, it was too warm to be practical, but I
still kept it on, just because I liked it. It was still dull gray in Duluth. I
had some Froot Loops for breakfast and we walked out into the quick wind and
drove off. Now Micah was in the back seat with me, so I didn’t have the freedom
to spread out like I did before. While we were driving across Minnesota, which
is almost Canada, I realized what it was that made Canadian scenery look
different from American scenery: most of the trees are pine trees. It was also
still dull gray, like it has been a lot of times I’ve gone through Canada. Dad
kept driving.

We had built up a lot of anticipation by the time We got to International Falls
to cross into Canada, and it turned out not to be as great as I remembered,
probably because we didn’t go to the places I like to go to. Instead of the
Canada Welcome Centre or whatever, which is friendly and does currency
exchange, we went to a clothes store full of <span class="small-caps">Minnesota
</span>merchandise; Mom bought me some underwear; and then to a lousy
restaurant called Giovanni’s, and I wasn’t even hungry. I didn’t get my
currency exchanged at all. Then we courageously approached the crossing, which
I was happy to see was just as insane as I remembered. The smell of paper pulp
from that paper factory sets the mood. Then there are the various parts of the
factory that intrude into the crossing--those big pipes, sprouting up out of
the ground like trees from a wasteland planet, and those trains that have two
or three cars if they have any. I especially like the part where the railroad
runs right up the middle of the road and then out the left side, then curves
around and intersects the road again twenty feet farther on. We made it through
all *that*. Then we pulled up to the window and a fat guy with a florid
goatee asked us for our IDs and where we were going and what kind of odd stuff
we were taking into the country with us. Then he let us go. And that was that.

Canada was just like Minnesota. We drove kilometre after kilometre. There were
a lot of nice lakes off to our side, and they all had a dark, deep bluish-gray
to them. The sky still spat rain on us. I did my part to relieve boredom by
reading aloud the Bill Bryson book I got yesterday. Everyone laughed out loud
when the Irish guy came drunk down the street and cussed out Denmark. You have
to read it. We didn’t stop much, but one time when we did, at a grocery store
next to a bait shop, I got my currency exchanged at the grocery store’s
checkout. I thought that was neat.

Kenora kind of snuck up on us. It’s a quiet town and it’s almost like it’s not
there when you’re driving by it. There’s a big lake you can see from everywhere
in town. I think it’s the Lake of the Woods. Before we knew it we were at our
Super 8. I really like this motel, because I was hungry when I came in and they
had a big crock of soup right there. It was such great soup. It came from a
restaurant next door, and it was hot and really delicious. I checked out our
room--also nice--and then donned my flannel, because it was chilly again now we
were farther north. Dan, Tracy, Dave, Erin, Sierra, and Hayden arrived. I
exchanged hellos and went out and sat on a hill and watched the traffic. I even
took a picture of it. The lake is just on the other side of the road. It’s
beautiful, really. A little while later I watched the traffic from the other
side of the street at a different spot where I could see every car for maybe a
quarter mile. I was waiting for Grandma and Grandpa’s big van, but it didn’t
come, so I went back in at 2010, to Dave’s room. There were a lot of people
there, all the ones I mentioned earlier. Hayden was literally climbing up the
walls, or window at least. Uncle Dan was tickling Sierra and she was shrieking
happily. Everyone else just watched. I played with the two little kids some
too-- giving them piggyback rides and that kind of stuff. We waited for Grandma
and Grandpa, but they still didn’t come, so we had fun without them. I even
took Sierra out to see the lake, but she got cold, so we went back in. Around
then Hayden fell asleep. Dave also called Grandma and Grandpa and found out why
they were delayed. Here it is. Aunt Irene’s luggage never came in at the
airport where they were picking her up, and then she got really sick because
(we think) of some food. And she had to buy some more clothes to replace her
luggage. The airport’s going to get it to her when she goes back into the US,
probably, but that does her zero good now. I felt sorry for all of them and
told Dan and Tracy and Micah about it and went back to my room. Everyone talked
until about 2300. Then they went to bed. Wimps.

Micah watched the window, and at 2330 or so he spotted them. They came in and
explained to us what had happened, and that Irene was still vividly sick, and
how today had been for them a total nightmare. I felt sorry again, but also
glad that it wasn’t me. They went to sleep pretty quickly, and left me in my
room. But everyone there is asleep. They told me not to do my journal entry in
there so they wouldn’t have to have the lights on. Actually they suggested the
bathroom, but I came out to the hallway instead. There’s a someone down the
hall reading something. They let out a burp earlier, so it might be Erin. I’m
going to go check it out.

[The next day I found out the airport had Aunt Irene’s luggage delivered
overnight on a cargo plane of some sort. That was very cordial of them.]
