---
title: 1 Camp
date: 2005-07-18T18:38:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2005-07-1-camp
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2005/07/1-camp.html
categories:
  - family
tags:
  - Crowduck

---
It wasn’t Erin, so I walked past her and turned around in the lobby and went to
sleep.

First I got up at 0800 when Dan and Tracy knocked on the door. I think they
wanted me to get Mom up so she could go shopping with them, but I’m not sure,
because I was half-asleep. Next I woke up at about 1000, and I think they were
trying to get her up again. Every year we go shopping just before the trip, but
this year to save energy just Mom, Tracy, and Grandma were going. Usually we go
at 8 but this year it fell on Canada Day, so the stores were closed until 10.

While they were shopping I hung around in Dave & Co.’s room. Erin made me some
tea. She and I and the two small ones were the only ones in the room at the
time. She says tea is good so I had her make me some. I guess I didn’t top it
right. She says topping is everything. Later I frankly got worried at 1100,
checkout time, because they weren’t checking their room out, but I found out
they had gotten an hour’s swing time somehow. Mom and the shopping women came
back and we loaded stuff and then we finally left.

The sun was out this morning. The scenery was expansive and piny. I liked that
two-hour drive. The lakes and everything are very pretty. When we got to our
drop-off point we could tell because the highway ended by pouring into the Big
Whiteshell Lake. I love that. It’s just so different. Half the rest of the
people were there already, and Dan said Bill had seen us as he was just leaving
on a boat across the lake, so he was coming back in a few. Meanwhile we
unloaded the cars. Man, did we ever have a lot of stuff. I think we packed
_way_ too much this year. We pack too much every year, that’s a given, but this
year _way_ too much. We all got nice and tired loading stuff onto the boat that
came and then sat down for the ten-minute ride across Big Whiteshell. We were
going fast, but the scenery was still great. Then we hit the far dock and
started unloading and loading all over again. Everyone got to do their part.
Right as we got it all out of the big boat, we realized Mom wasn’t there. So a
boat went back to get her. We pushed on, though. I sat in the back of a pickup
with Erin and Sierra and Dave and Micah and I took pictures. In fact I took a
lot of pictures today. I especially liked the one where we saw the lake over
some trees. Right after that we pulled into camp. And so the unloading began
again. We also had to sort stuff by cabins this time. First we determined who
has what cabin. As far as I can tell our family has Cabin 4, the older
generation has 6, and everyone else is in 5. Maybe Dan and Tracy are in 6. But
we have the best one. Bill remodeled Number 4 last winter, so now it’s really
posh and swanky, as such terms apply ten miles from everyone else in the deep
woods of Canada, and it has a marble fireplace and brand new sinkwork and real
pretty walls. As soon as we were done unloading I took a look at the lake. It
was beautiful. It stretched out dark blue everywhere in front of me. The banks
were carpeted with a green, wild forest full of bears and moose and deer. A
little wind whipped up the surface. I loved it. I really love this place.

Reluctantly I headed back up the hill to the cabins, but not without a picture,
and fooled around. That’s the beauty of the first day: there’s absolutely
nothing you have to do, so you can walk around, or you can talk to people, or
you can sit down, or anything. I talked aimlessly with Erin. That’s the best
way to talk. We walked down to The Point [little granite peninsula] and then
back up the sand road. After we were done I had some chips and salsa. Then I
played horseshoes with Dan and Tracy and Dave in the horseshoe pit just barely
carved out of the forest behind the cabins. For a long time we couldn’t find
the fourth horseshoe, and we finally gave up and played with three. On the
first turn, though, Dave threw such a sucky two shoes right into a bunch of
fallen trees and when we went to get his we found the other one too. We were
down 4 to 8 when Dave quit because he sucked so much, and when I went back to
recruit Dad to take his place I found out dinner was ready. Chili and wild rice
soup. I just had chili, lots and lots of it. Chili is one of my favorite foods.
Afterwards I replaced Dave with Uncle Joe and still lost, pretty badly too. 

The lake is up really high this year. Everyone working here says it’s the
highest they’ve ever seen it. It’s so high the docks have been overflowed and
they had to put down some more boards. It’s because there’s been a lot of rain
(to put it mildly). This may mean good fishing (but I don’t know), but it’s
also lots of mosquitoes. <span class="smallcaps">Off!</span> is required at
all times, indoors and out.


I was sitting there messing with a fishing rod and someone came by, I think
Tracy, and said there were some foxes playing at the beach. Everyone went to
the docks to watch them from across a little bit of the lake (so as not to
scare them). The foxes were really frisky and looked to be having a lot of fun.
I took three pictures, but they weren’t zoomed in far enough because my camera
doesn’t have that much zoom. I used some binoculars, though, and saw them up
close. Orange and white with those black paws. I have only seen one fox before
that, and that was a pretty sick-looking one today on the road. (Zoos don’t
count.)


When we played poker I won the first hand. Then I won absolutely nothing after
that. I took out five dollars and slowly lost it all, because I kept getting
mediocre hands. I took out another dollar to play In-Between later, but every
time it looked promising I would hit post and have to pay double what I bet, or
I would completely miss it. In short, I had a bad day at poker and lost a lot
of money. I’ll try again tomorrow, but once I’m down ten bucks I’m going to be
a spectator. I was for the last 75% of In-Between. I watched while the last pot
would not die, and it was too bad for Grandma because she wanted to sleep on
the porch where we were playing. Finally, of all the undeserving people, Micah
took it all. I hate poker tonight.

It felt like a lot later than it was when we quit. It wasn’t even midnight.
Generally my night would be just beginning if I were at home. But tonight I’m
going to fall asleep out here on the porch.
