---
title: Sick day
date: 2005-04-26T22:30:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2005-04-sick-day
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2005/04/sick-day.html
categories:
  - fonts
  - creekwalking

---

*Note: Greatly edited in 2017 to remove details, some personal, most merely
pointless and boring.*
{: .prefatory }

In my last post I forgot to tell about the creekwalk Micah and I took past the
power pylon at Seymour Preserve. It was pretty awesome, except toward the end.
We took the same route described in the last creekwalking post to that pylon
and then kept on going. After trekking through an expansive field of
four-foot-high, brittle weeds, we ended up across the street from a brilliant
creek that happened to be at the edge of Caldwell Nature Preserve. When we got
to the creek we found the going would be nice and easy, since there was a trail
running right next to the creek for its entire length. In Caldwell we had
probably the most fun we’ve ever had on a creekwalk.

Eventually that creek flowed into the Mill Creek, which, according to my map,
would take us directly under a cool railroad. However, we didn’t follow the
Mill Creek exactly, because Micah wanted to veer upward and into what he
thought was a shortcut. It wasn’t. What it was was a dank, dreary, depressing
place called “American Crushed Steel” (we think–that’s what it said on the side
of a machine there). American Crushed Steel was a vast muddy plain strewn with
enormous piles of metallic trash sorted into separate piles. Each pile had a
different kind of garbage in it. Parts of old wheels go here. Inexplicable
metal circles there. Dead coffee cans in that pile, springs in this one. Micah
and I trudged through the thick, inescapable mud, dodging frequent puddles of
water and sometimes not dodging them, walking across fallen doors and beside
defunct bulldozers, and came disbelievingly to a fence with a railroad on the
other side, just like we’d planned all along! Here we stopped next to a caboose
on American Crushed Steel’s side of the fence that hasn’t run for at least
thirty years and pulled Pop-Tarts and Sprite out of the backpack we’d been
alternatingly carrying. We must’ve looked for all the world like juvenile
hobos.

We resolved to wait here until a train passed by and then turn back and go
home. That plan didn’t work. We sat for probably an hour and nothing passed by.
We heard trains tantalizingly close but out of view on other tracks somewhere
and had to just sit there. Eventually we got fed up and turned around. We were
much more tired by then. It was less fun to walk back through Caldwell and not
fun at all to walk back through the field of four-foot weeds, but we knew we
had to. Just before night, we arrived home. That was March 14th, by the way.

