---
title: 6 Camp
date: 2005-07-30T16:23:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2005-07-6-camp
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2005/07/6-camp.html
categories:
  - family
tags:
  - Crowduck

---
I’m sorry, everyone. I had two days to get the last two entries on the
internet, and I forgot. Then I had to go to band camp. But now I’m back and
I’ll type both of them. Here’s this one:

+++++++++++++

I woke up about 0900, I guess. I had some cereal and then I went outside. Every
time I do this I end up with Sierra, tickling her or something to make her
laugh. I did that for a short time. Then I went down to the beach in my
swimsuit and water shoes. But I stood in the water and while it was very
pretty, it didn’t offer much more than the dock where views came and I wasn’t
about to put my head underwater to swim, so I ended up only staying one or two
minutes. I walked back to the cabin and changed back out of that and retrieved
Micah and we went fishing, with Dad.

I drove up to that cove we discovered yesterday. The wind started lazily
drifting us as we cast our lines out and waited. Occasionally I trolled us. I
caught the first, and, as it happened, last fish, a real fighter of a pike
right next to the boat. Dad took us for a brief but interesting rest stop on a
granite and grass peninsula around there, where both of us stepped in a lively
colony of ants.

It’s interesting to think about the hills as you boat by them. They roll up and
down to all sides of you, closing you into the lake, and they’re lush and
green. And what really fascinates me is thinking that almost all the area I’m
seeing has never been walked on by a person. Aside from occasional airplanes
overhead and boat engines on the lake, for all the animals in the forest know
there’s no such thing as a human. If I went bursting in there, and met a bear,
it would have no clue what to make of me. And I would be the first person,
_ever_, to set foot there. I think it’s pretty incredible to think that inspite
of the millions of years people have been around, it’s still possible to be the
first person anywhere.

We drove back, Dad tossed back a couple of beers with the folks, and then we
went back out again, this time to go see the Falls. Dad had Micah drive, but
Micah wussed out, so Dad drove. Halfway there I realized I’d forgotten my
camera. I couldn’t believe it. Fortunately Dad’s agreed to go back tomorrow.
It’s a long ride out to the Falls, crossing the entire lake. The Falls start
with a bay at the far side. 

The bay is edged with green reeds. It empties out through a small corridor into
an imperceptibly flowing river of crystal clear water that seems just like the
lake except that it’s narrow and the boat only drifts one way, which eventually
I realized was downstream. Today we all cast our lines out and drifted
haphazardly downstream, occasionally bumping off things on the bank, like parts
of a fallen tree. Granite rocks made genial steep slopes at different places on
either bank. Then the current took us into a broad, flat, shallow bay with bad
fishing, so we took in our lines and Dad drove the rest of the way. Just as we
came up onto the Falls, it was weird to see one little corner of the lake where
instead of trees on the bank there was no bank at all and the lake slipped off
an edge. We hoisted the boat up onto some rocks and tied it up and walked
through some grass to go see the Falls close-up. 

Boy, are they ever energetic this year, what with the water level up about a
foot. The water slipping into them immediately hits a frothy oblivion sliding
uncontrollably down a 45° granite chaotic slope littered with spare boulders,
and, in somewhat dry spots, some really brazen bushes. It’s impossible to even
stand in it on the very edge wihout being swept off to a scenic death. We had
to admire it from the edges as it roared perpetually off down the rocks and
churned the devil out of the lake water. I could sit there for hours.

But Micah went over to the ramshackle old dock nearby and somehow started
finding things people had dropped off it: first a pretty nice reel repair
multitool with a knife and pliers, then three green bottles. He got the
multitool himself, but he was too freaked out to get the bottles. I was too for
a minute, but finally I took the plunge of faith and went all the way under to
grab one at my feet in three- or four-foot water. It was cold, but refreshing.
And he gave me 65¢ in poker tonight for it. He made it $1.50 for that one and
the two others, but later on he changed it to $1.25. We got in the boat, lazed
up the river, and briefly fished a bay up around there. Dad caught a five-inch
bass. It was downright cute. Obviously he threw it back.

We had a terrific dinner that we almost missed coming back late. I liked the
fried potatoes especially. And I had two salads. A little while later we
started poker. Everyone had drunk quite a bunch. So I should’ve been the best
player around. But I wasn’t. I started out playing two hands really badly,
letting Grandpa buy me out of a pair of Ks with a stone bluff on one. Then for
the rest of the night I had absolutely turd luck. I never should’ve played
poker tonight. I was down only, what, $4.45? Everyone kept urging me on tonight
and I was reckless and I’m down $11.45. On the upside, barely any of it is
mine. Mom’s giving me $5 for allowance and dad gave me $3 just because. And we
might not even settle up. We didn’t last year.

Everyone checked out the stars, but there were no Northern Lights, just a
beautiful clear sky. Then we went inside. And I read my Bill Bryson book for
_way_ too long. At 0215, Mom said, “Well, sun is gonna rise in an hour.” I hate
trying to sleep un sunlight. I don’t think it’s risen yet, so maybe she was
wrong.
