---
title: School
date: 2005-08-23T01:09:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2005-08-school
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2005/08/school.html
categories:
  - creekwalking
  - high school

---
My summer has shrunk to the size of a regular old day off. All there is left of
it is tomorrow. And I only got one creekwalk in. I wanted to take one today,
but then I realized I had band practice. The one I got was on Friday or
Saturday. I don’t remember which. I was about to go somewhere and was putting
on my shoes when Aaron called me. He asked if I wanted to go creeking. I
decided creekwalking was more important than where I was going and biked up to
his house to show him some maps.

I had figured we’d either go to the Railroad (doubted it even then) or on a
creekwalk I haven’t done before, the school to Winton Woods. But Aaron
surprised me by telling me of a different creek he knew, one that emanated from
a place called Melody Park right down a street from his house. I checked my
trusty topography
[sou](http://chuckmasterson.blogspot.com/www.topozone.com)r[ces](http://chuckmasterson.blogspot.com/maps.google.com)
and saw that it joined up with the creek behind the school to got to Winton
Woods as well. Since Aaron’s printer wouldn’t work, I freehanded a little map,
and we had a few cups of water, and we left his house.

I didn’t know what Melody Park might look like. And as we walked down Melody
Lane, which ended in a cul-de-sac a hundred yards from where it started, I
didn’t even see where it might be. Then when we got to the end I noticed there
was a little sidewalk running between two houses. I discovered that the
sidewalk runs under a few trees and then turns into a shallow staircase going
down a very tall hill to a field lined with tall grass hiding the creek. The
creek was different from other creeks, but then all creeks are. It had a lot of
rocks around, good for stepping on, and it ran right behind a bunch of
backyards. There was almost no room for walking on either shore: there was a
vertical bank and then a very thick forest. Luckily the rocks were there for a
lot of the time. When they weren’t we had to either go through the forest or
try to cling to the bank, sometimes by using trees to hold onto. One time while
moving down a shore and hanging onto trees one after another, leaning out
backwards over the creek, I fell in and dunked my shoes, but other than that we
were mainly successful. We named a few places along the way. A tree across the
creek from the yard of a guy who kept talking on his cell phone was “Stop Here
and Rest a Moment”, and a log somewhere farther along was “Chillin’ Log”. Right
around Chillin’ Log I found a black plastic A. I gave it to Aaron. And we made
jokes, and that sort of stuff. You know, the kind of stuff you do with friends. 

The creek we were on sideswipes Daly Road, and we had started hearing traffic,
but the traffic wasn’t coming from the right angle to be Daly. Sure enough,
when we came up it was Compton, which I then realized we hadn’t crossed yet. We
did then, and found the creek again running under the Jerome W Sirk bridge. To
the left of the bridge it forked away, but we took the right fork and kept on
going. The creek was a little wider here and the bank was a little flatter. A
while further on the woods at the left bank vanished and as I stood on the
other bank, on the edge of what appeared to be a bridge that was demolished, I
saw across the creek what looked like some kind of religious building--a
pyramid with about twenty sides, and inflated a little so it was convex. Then I
looked through the open doorway and realized it was a salt storage dome. While
I stood there a green county pickup truck wandered aimlessly there. Aaron
caught up and we took advantage of the road that had once crossed the creek on
the now-defunct bridge. It was paved with gravel and it ran alongside the
creek. It ended at a road. The road was Compton.

And here I figured we were farther along than that. Across the street was a
condo complex called Bridgecreek, featuring the creek running under a nice
bridge. To the right was Cherryblossom. I checked my freehand map again and
couldn’t figure out where we might be. Aaron decided we must’ve made a wrong
turn at the Jerome W Sirk bridge so far back, and rather than keep going we
decided to follow Cherryblossom back to his neighborhood. In retrospect it was
probably a good thing we stopped there, since we were both probably somewhere
close to dehydrated. We hadn’t brought bottles, because there weren’t any
handy. Cherryblossom turned out to end right near Skyline Chili, so we stopped
there and with the sixteen dollars we had together bought a modest but filling
meal and drank a lot of free refills. We also tried to visit BJ, but he wasn’t
home so we walked back to Aaron’s, stopping at Andy Hughes’s place along the
way.

* * *

Yesterday Dad took me to bigg’s and we bought some school supplies--mainly
notebooks and folders. I want to go to Office Depot and get some more #3
Pencils, because I’m running out. I bought, like, five dozen one time about
three years ago and they’ve lasted me until now.

So school starts on Wednesday. Bright and early at 0720 for us band kids. I
think the first day of school should start at noon. And while I’m at it, I also
don’t think you should have to go to school on your birthday. Oh, and I can’t
wait for winter. Mrs Rielac up the street says this one’s probably going to be
a hard one, judging by how there are already berries on her magnolia and acorns
on the ground. That means more snow, and thus more snow days!
