---
title: 2 Camp
date: 2005-07-20T06:22:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2005-07-2-camp
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2005/07/2-camp.html
categories:
  - family
tags:
  - Crowduck

---
It rained some last night; when I woke up, though, it wasn’t raining. Dad had
made some breakfast, but I was too late to get as much as I wanted. I still got
plenty. Then we decided to go fishing. Micah came along with us and we got on
the boat to push out.

The sense of seclusion is terrific. We were out there, three guys in a boat,
and all around us the water stretched out to shores we would never walk on. It
was deep blue and huge, enough to remind you that you’re pretty small when it
comes right down to it. We hung a left into Darkwater Bay. We trolled around
there for about fifteen minutes, but we didn’t catch anything, so we went
around to a little cove nearby. [I thought at the time it was Steve’s cove, but
later I found out it wasn’t.] Most family members have a cove named after them,
one where they had a particularly good fishing day. This one [I thought] was
Dad’s, and it was pretty good. He caught the first one. It was a pike, about
normal size-- somewhere over a foot. Then Micah got one right after his,
another nice pike. We trolled and cast awhile and I didn’t catch anything. A
while later Micah caught another pike and Dad caught one too. I still had a
score of zero. Eventually we got tired and went in.

I don’t know exactly when, but around noon I took a nap-- I guess I just didn’t
get enough sleep last night. I slept until about three and then decided not to
waste the rest of the day and got up to have some chips and salsa. Mom and Dad
were gone but Grandma and Grandpa and Dan and Tracy were still sitting around,
along with some of our other people. I finished off my chips and salsa and was
sitting there in the sun when Grandpa and Uncle Joe told me, “We’re going
fishing. Want to come along?” I said sure and we went.

Grandpa drove us to North Bay. At first he got a little lost, but he figured it
out and we stuck our lures in the water. We trolled around the bay. And nothing
happened. About ten minutes in I thought I got a bite but that was all for me.
Ten more minutes or so and Grandpa caught a small pike. Then nothing else
happened. We went to another cove on our way back but nothing happened there
either except that I got tangled in Grandpa’s line, they twisted together for
about three feet, and we both had to cut our lines. 

When we got back we formed a loose circle of chairs on the porch like we always
do and discussed random stuff. Normally the type of stuff we discuss wouldn’t
be so interesting-- old tractors, annoying people at work-- but at Crowduck
it’s enhanced just by being here. That and Dan always adds a bit of funny into
the conversation. Dinner happened a little later and we ate plenty, especially
of waffle fries, and I sat with Erin and Micah in the screened-in part of the
porch, which has a picnic-style table in it. It’s nice to just sit around here
and have meaningless conversation.

Bill ran his grader today, an ancient, loud piece of machine that he has to run
to keep the roads solvent. When he came back from going all the way to the
Whiteshell dock and back I talked to him a little. He told me he did get that
letter I wrote him last February after all, and he was honored I’d like to work
for him, but he didn’t know if it could work out, what with me being a
non-resident. Aaron [he and his parents work at the dock; he’s 15 or 16 years
old], though, lives in Florida and still works here on weekends. I’ll dig a
little deeper and get all the facts. Maybe it has to do with him going to
Ontario when it’s not the weekend. 

I took two more dollars out for poker tonight, putting me at -$8 for the week.
Then I kept getting some really good hands, and playing it very nicely. I took
a lot of money from everyone and regained all of the money I lost yesterday. I
had a really good day with Texas Hold ‘Em. I’m going to keep playing through
the rest of the week. Where I lost money, though, was when we switched to
In-Between.

In-Between is a betting game, except that virtually no skill is involved. It
goes like this: the dealer puts two cards on the table with a space in between
them for another one. You then bet according to what you think the odds are of
the card he puts in the space being between them in value. Aces are high. For
example: the dealer (Dan) puts down a 5 and a 6. There is no 5½ card, so you
bet nothing and the play goes to the person on your left. Another example: he
puts down an A and a 2 (this spread is known as the Acey-Deucey) and, since
that’s the best spread possible, you bet the whole pot. He puts down a 2 in
between them and that’s called hitting post: one of the cards already down
comes up again. When you hit post you pay double what you bet, and since the
pot has accumulated, let’s say, $1.50 of other people’s bets, you pay $3.00.
Sucks, doesn’t it? Well, it _is_ possible to win, but evidently I haven’t
figured out the secret. I couldn’t get a decent spread to save my life, so I
just kept getting my money whittled away by anteing up once someone else won
the pot. Still, though, I cashed out at only -$1.25 for the week, up $6.75
today. Then I watched everyone else funnel their money into a brutal pot that
had people hit post on $3.00 and $6.00. I was really glad I got out when I did,
but I still wasn’t pleased to note that Grandpa won it all when he took the
$15.50 pot on a King-Deuce.  

Right after poker a storm came up. At first it was just thunder and lightning.
I watched the lightning over the treetops. So quiet, it was pretty eerie, with
the pines at the edge of camp jutting into its light. Up here you get reminded
a lot that you’re not so big after all. I took a few pictures, but I don’t
think most of them turned out. It’s really an incredible experience to see a
lightning storm here. With no city light the sky is completely black until a
lightning strike. At that point it turns a bright inky blue. And tonight there
was a lot of lightning. It flashed on and off wildly, light half the time and
dark half. It’s vvery awesome.  

By the way:  

In Cabin 5, there are some bats in the roof. Dave just found this out today. He
called Bill in and got the eaves repaired, sealing off their usual route out,
so during poker they discovered a different way, through a hole into the
screened-in porch that’s connected to the cabin. There were about a dozen of
them flying around in the porch, and they just kind of filtered themselves out
the open door, one by one. I don’t know if they’ll stay gone, but they’ve left
the roof for tonight, at least for a while.
