---
title: 'Correction: Life is Good'
date: 2006-12-27T21:41:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2006-12-correction-life-is-good
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2006/12/correction-life-is-good.html
categories:
  - technology
  - reading

---
It appears I have been greatly misled by my dad, who misunderstood a remark
Grandpa made. What Grandpa said was that he might do Crowduck with just him and
Grandma next year. What Dad failed to understand was that he meant a second
trip: Everyone would go, and then maybe just Grandma and Grandpa would go a
month or two later. So, Crowduck is on, and it was never off in the first
place!

I found out this much when I went to Oxford a couple days ago for Christmas
with Grandma and Grandpa. I actually went on Christmas Eve and slept over.
Uncle Joe was there, as he is every year, flying out from Oregon. Aunt Irene
was also there; she (as I understand it) had come in to help Grandma and
Grandpa around the house while and after Grandma was in the hospital with some
sort of problem. Grandma is still a bit tender. I played a lot of pool with
Uncle Joe, and, thanks to a quantity of beer, I actually gained a winning
record (4-3) over him: unheard of! Christmas came. I had some stuff toward the
stranger end of the spectrum this year, namely, from Grandma and Grandpa, a
flashlight that you put on an elastic band over your head. However, in trying
to think what possible use I could have for such a gift, I realized that it
would make the perfect “headlight” for my biking forays in the dark. I also got
a Swiss Army knife from Uncle Dan. And from Mom and Dad, I got _The Complete
Calvin and Hobbes_, an exhaustive tool caddy (Mom got it wholesale from her job
at The Hillman Group), a book called _In a Far Country: The True Story of a
Mission, a Marriage, a Murder, and the Remarkable Reindeer Rescue of 1898_, and
one other thing that I do not immediately recall. Oh yes, it was this year’s
365 Stupidest Things Ever Said calendar. This year, the Grasshoppers passed to
Uncle Dave. These things have been circulating in the family for about forty
years. It’s a little tin of Dutch Boy brand Fried Grasshoppers. Every year, the
recipient gives them to someone else. I recall that when I gave them, I boxed
them in a gradually enlarging series of boxes. I like to have a little fun. 

So now to get to the real meat of this post. I try to come up with at least
thing to write about that, rather than just current events, is an opinion or
something. Today I ask: What good are RPGs? Not Rocket-Propelled Grenades. I
mean Role-Playing Games. My most immediate beef is with one that Micah plays.
It’s called RuneScape. I was surprised to learn that something called runes
actually plays an important part in the game; I had figured, when he started
playing, that they had found the word “rune” somewhere and decided it made a
neat euphonious name for the game. Increasingly it’s become clear to me,
though, that whatever they’re calling runes aren’t [really
runes](http://www.timelessmyths.com/norse/data/runes1.gif). I think a more
accurate word would be “scrolls”. That’s not my point. My point is that RPGs
are really an insidious thing. For one thing, they’re not really games. A real
game has a goal. The goal in RuneScape, as far as I can tell, is to “level up”.
Micah currently has about five characters, and the highest is at Level 59. The
point of getting a higher Level is to be more powerful, I guess. There is no
endpoint to the game, nothing you have to achieve other than stare at a
computer screen and navigate a bad-graphics character (whose face you never
really even get to see) around a bad-graphics medieval “world”. The “world”
resembles the constructs of a world you find in your dreams, where everything
is scaled down except you, and you don’t have a lot of motor control over
yourself. I saw Micah’s character wander across a “mountain range” whose
tallest mountain was about fifty feet high and which was about an eighth of a
mile long, but which was nevertheless covered in snow and inhabited by white
wolves. It was enclosed by wooden fences at the borders of the property of a
few farmers. Everything about the game is surreal. For example, unless you’re
in, as I gather, “The Wilderness”, your character can walk right through any
other character wandering around. The cities are guarded by large amounts of
“guards”, but what these guards are good for is anybody’s guess, because not
only do they just pointlessly wander (not guarding anything), but you can
easily kill them and nobody even looks twice -- not even the other guards. Once
you’ve killed one, he instantaneously decomposes and youpick up his bones for
some reason and bury them wherever you feel like: say, in a paved street, or in
the floor of the Bank. That, as far as I can tell, is about all there is to the
game. Amble aimlessly, kill guards and stuff, level up. And doing this, Micah
spends at least three hours a day and usually more. (When I ask him how much
RuneScape he’s played in a day, he usually claims about two hours, but clocks
hailing from the Real World beg to differ.) A game that has no explicitly
stated goal. Seems to me a lot like this one thing I’ve heard of called
“living”. A game that simulates life! How grand! Well, the thing is, even if it
were a _good_ simulation, and it definitely isn’t, it _isn’t_ life. All it is
is a simulation. Our subject has transferred his time from the real world to
this surreal 640×800 one. And he’s so caught up in the excitement of having
something to do there (level up) that he doesn’t realize that the game is
draining away his life. He feels successful, too, because he can quantify his
results. “I leveled up! Now I’m at level 60!” Well, that’s not success. It’s
nothing.

This goes for every other RPG, too, because obviously they’re all nothing.
