---
title: Montag
date: 2006-11-28T00:19:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2006-11-montag
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2006/11/montag.html
categories:
  - land skills
  - meat
  - nature

---
It is Monday. See, now, I’ve kept my word: an update every week or so. I
couldn’t do it on the weekend. I was too busy.  

I like Thanksgiving, definitely not least because it gets me out of school. A
two-day week. Well, if they took out those two days, I guess Thanksgiving break
would be on par with Christmas break, and we have to keep these things in
perspective. Sometimes schools can be really dumb. Frequently, actually. Coming
home today, I heard a girl on academic team (sorry, I’m horrendous with names)
telling of how she went to elementary school at St Vivian’s up the street. She
says she once lost her recesses for a week for wiggling a loose tooth, and
another girl (Lauren?) lost her recesses for a week for watching her wiggle her
loose tooth. Also, if you had your homework in your locker there, but not
physically with you, you would get a detention even though your locker might be
less than one foot from your desk. Zero tolerance makes things really simple,
but all too often the result is just nonsense. mp3 players are an example. Our
school has a rule: no mp3 players are allowed out anytime. This is a good
policy in dealing with academic classes, where they impair the ability of
students to focus. But in study hall, enforcement of the policy is plainly
dumb, because quite frequently there’s nothing for a student to do, and filling
the space with music hurts no one and keeps the student from wacking out. To
the credit of Mr Nichols, the study hall teacher -- no, “teacher” is much too
strong a word, let’s try “supervisor” -- he doesn’t penalize us for it, or
maybe he’s just spectacularly unobservant, because I haven’t seen anyone get in
trouble for a violation. But my brother got his mp3 player, Houston,
confiscated for at least a month because he had it out in the lunchroom. See
what I’m talking about, America? I’m sorry. I won’t address questions to
“America” anymore. That’s Bernie Mac’s domain.  

For Thanksgiving break we the family went up to West Virginia to meet up with
other parts of the family. Every year we have a big family reunion for
Thanksgiving. Of 65 people there this year (we counted off), I knew maybe ten.
I have to take their word that these people are related to me. One guy was
clearly Oriental, but I suppose he could have been related by marriage.  It’s
held in a weird room. It’s part of a church. It has office-style carpeting;
there are gym mats lining the wall and a basketball hoop at one end, and at the
other end there’s a window let into the next room, a kitchen, so food can be
passed through. On the wall above that window there’s a reproduction of The
Last Supper and another painting of Jesus, and on one of the other walls there
are flags of various countries and States: West Virginia, Ohio, Russia, Uganda,
and others. I have no idea how all these people know to congregate here.
They’re the backwoods type; I can’t see them opening up an e-mailed invitation.
I also don’t know who would take the time to write a paper invitation to each
of them and mailing them. My best theory is that either they say when it’ll be
the following year each year (easy for Thanksgiving, but I don’t recall ever
hearing when the other reunion -- the one each year in the summer -- is
scheduled for the following year), or they have some sort of hillbilly Shining.
“I’m picking up a vibe, Beth. It feels like Jim and Jackie. They -- they’re in
trouble. They’re stuck in the snow -- no -- no, wait -- no, that’s just static
-- Beth, turn off the TV. There we go. Jim and Jackie say the reunion is on
June 15th at 3:00.”  

After the reunion, we stayed over at Nana & Papaw’s (they’re Jackie and Jim,
respectively) for a couple of days, with Aunt Tami and her kids Travis and
Small Jackie. Uncle Mike had work. Dad, Travis, Micah, and I hunted deer.  Nana
& Papaw have a big hill to their name -- I think they said something like 20 or
40 acres -- and each year we hunt on it. This year Dad took me and Travis on
Friday morning at maybe 0730. It was still below freezing out, and I wore
gloves. Dad lent me his 30-30, and had me stick around at a tree growing on a
mound. I had an expansive view of the hillside of the next hill over. The sun
hadn’t yet come up from behind it. I sat silently. The forest was more noisy.
As the sun started coming up, I heard a noise of thousands of acorns falling
into the leaf litter. They gradually became more frequent. It took me until I
saw a water drop fall to the ground a few feet from me to realize that what I
was really hearing was the forest melting as the temperature rose above 32.
Then I started seeing: drops of water falling everywhere, catching the new
light. It really is something terrific, you know.  I didn’t see any deer. In
fact, after the sun came up sufficiently, which was by 0830, the entire
hillside view I had was rendered hazy by a screen of light bouncing off the
tree branches there, though I still kept watching intently. I heard noises --
mice skittering around under the underbrush next to me, squirrels yelling
things at other squirrels, and obviously birds on all sides. The most elegant
symphony in quadraphonic sound still doesn’t have that spark: something you can
only get when you’re outside in the middle of a giant space engulfing you on
all three dimensions in, pretty simply put, life. Getting away from austere
quadrilateral geometry and back to a place we all used to know. We all still do
know it, I think, but most of us aren’t aware that we do. It’s like having a
pen pal you never write to. It infused me with sanity and fresh air, and I feel
recharged. I can take on stuff now. I can _finish_ those bleeding college
applications.  

Dad got a deer. Now, having just finished reading my praise of the forest, you
might expect me to come up with some sort of sentiment about the sadness of it,
taking a life. No, because I know that death is inextricably woven into the
tapestry of the ecosystem. I don’t feel more remorse killing a deer than a wolf
does: well, actually, I do. I’m remembering the Indians who after all their
kills would thank the spirit of the animal for providing them with their
sustenance. That’s something akin to what I’m doing. And I say that any meal
prepared from this venison is both physically and ethically superior to beef,
because the deer didn’t have any constraints and was free to go, eat, and do
whatever it wanted while it lived. I won’t stop eating beef, now, in case you
were jumping to some sort of conclusion like that, but the food that had a real
life is better. Incidentally, Dad made a meatloaf out of some of it last night,
and it was very good, but I could have done without the chopped-up sausage he
added, which was kind of a weird touch.  

*[Note from 2017: lopped off some boring stuff from the end. It didn't have a 
more conclusive ending than the one already here.]*
