---
title: My quest
date: 2007-01-15T16:43:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2007-01-my-quest
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2007/01/my-quest.html
categories:
  - reading

---
I decided a while ago that what I was going to do was read a book by each Nobel
Prize winner in literature. This has met with some criticism. Mom says
everything I read shouldn’t be determined by some Swedish group I don’t even
know. Rosie says the Nobel committee is a bunch of hoity-toities who just read
books and see which one has the best-hidden symbolism, and it’s just a nerd-off
contest. Well, here’s what I say.

I like to read. However, I’m not that great at picking random books off the
shelf. That strategy led me to pay something like twenty-five dollars for, and
read all the way through, _The Ethical Assassin_, which turned out to be not a
very good book at all, and a vegetarian manifesto to boot. So a little guidance
couldn’t hurt in my selection process. And the Nobel committee is a group I put
a good amount of stock in, because it’s composed of such lettered people, and
because it’s been doing this for quite a while. Besides, what are my
alternatives? The _New York Times_? Oprah? No thanks. And, I’m not reading
_only_ Nobel laureates. For example, I’m currently reading the excellent
_Walden._ The other day at Borders I saw a book on the shelf that I thought
would be pretty good, from the summary on the back -- _Babbitt_, by Sinclair
Lewis. I was considering buying it, and then I read on the back that Sinclair
Lewis got a Nobel, so I reasoned that I was going to come around to him
eventually anyhow, so I’d buy the book, which I had thought looked good anyhow.  

So far, here’s a list of what I’ve read.
- _Lord of the Flies_ by William Golding -- read it for class, then found out
  Golding was a laureate.
- _Blindness_ by José Saramago
- Approximately 2/3 of _Independent People_ by Halldór Laxness. Then I lost the
  book, so I had to order another from amazon.com. The original was a library
  book, so I’ll end up paying for that one too.
- _The Old Man and the Sea_ and _A Farewell to Arms_ by Ernest Hemingway- I
  just now found out Hemingway was a laureate.
- some _The Jungle Book_ stuff -- Rudyard Kipling too, huh. I’ll probably read
  some other stuff by him. 

Things I plan to read include _The Grapes of Wrath_ by John Steinbeck, _My Name
is Red_ by Orhan Pamuk, _Cien Años de Soledad_ por Gabriel García Márquez,
_Enemies, a Love Story_ by Isaac Bashevis Singer, _Waiting for Godot_ by Samuel
Beckett, and of course _Babbitt_ by Sinclair Lewis. 

So there you go. What else has happened? Not much. Pit practice for the musical
starts today despite our day off of school. The musical is _South Pacific_.
Micah’s now a level 60 in RunEscape. It’s rained a lot. Rain, a lot of it.
Every day, seems like. We’ve got prodigious puddles in our front yard. It’s
impossible to walk in Warder without getting your feet wet (unless you stay
exclusively on the semi-paved trail, which isn’t an option for me). A
weatherman said that if this had all fallen as snow we’d be up to our waists.
That’s probably understated. But the fact remains that it _didn’t_ fall as
snow. I don’t think we’re even going to have winter this year. Just fall
followed by spring. Not my fault but it affects me anyhow. It really burns me.
Also worth noting is that my waterproof shoes are no longer waterproof.
Whatever.

<span style="font-size:180%;">AAAAAAAAAARHHHHHHHHHHGGGGGGG</span>
