---
title: The expedition
date: 2007-10-06T18:32:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2007-10-expedition
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2007/10/expedition.html
categories:
  - college
  - krokay
  - adventure

---
First off, I would like to offer my sincere thanks, Aunt Irene, for those
cookies. I haven’t started on them yet, because I just got them today before
lunch, but I’m pretty confident they’ll be excellent. And a compound thanks for
a nice letter to go along with them.

* * *

It’s been a lot of work. I recently picked up a shift at the Spencer Grill,
which is located in the Joe Rosenfield Center, which I understand used to be a
parking lot. It’s on the southern end of Mac Field. The shift is from 2300 to
0300 on Saturdays. I’ve only done it once, but I’ll be doing it again today.
Last week it only ran until 0215, which was nice. “Work” work doesn’t account
for most of my time, though; most of my time is schoolwork. I have two papers
due on Tuesday, both of which I’ll do tomorrow. I also have really tough calc
to do tomorrow. So I haven’t been doing a whole lot of leisure stuff.  

Last night, I got off work about 2030. I sat in my room and did internet stuff
for a while. I’ve been trading emails with Bob Warseck of the Connecticut
eXtreme Croquet Society, preparatory to starting my own krokay club here. I’ve
asked him for advice on how to make mallets, and talked about rules. They have
a very complex rule set, developed over years of extreme croquet. They’ve been
playing for 23 years. It’s pretty impressive. You ought to check out the
[feature](http://www.extremecroquet.org/about/discoverychannel.html) that the
Discovery Channel did on them. There was a [different
feature](http://www.extremecroquet.org/about/emmyclip.html) about them by a
local news channel that won an Emmy, but the Discovery Channel’s is much more
informative. The local one was just interesting, I guess. I think it was also
part of a three-part series. Anyhow, at about 2330, I decided I needed to get
off the computer ad out of the dorm. I wanted to go see if Merrill Park might
have any good krokay grounds. I biked there, but even in the dark I could tell
it didn’t have much in the way of extremity. It was flat, with just a
playground. Also, a plastic lion, which was weird. So, I left Merrill Park. I
started heading _we_st. They’ve built a bike trail to Rock Creek, and I wanted
to see if I could find it for future reference. It’s even miles from Grinnell
to Rock Creek, so obviously I wasn’t going to bike there tonight. I found two
streets that seemed like they ought to have the bike trail on them, but they
didn’t. The third one didn’t seem to either, until I turned around and realized
it was right there, but I couldn’t see it in the dark because I was biking on
the other side of the road. The sky was clear and so was the Milky Way. I had
seen one car since I got to the trail. It had only one headlight on. I
continued heading east. Most of the time, I could only see about five or ten
feet of trail in front of me; luckily, though, it was completely straight. I
could make out how far there was until the crest of a hill based on the dim
horizon. Occasionally I passed buildings with lights on. The only noise was the
diligent drone of the insects. Two fences rose up on my sides. “Ths is
definitely a bridge,” I said in surprise. “That was definitely a bridge,” I
said once I got off it. I kept on biking. I was barefoot, and immersed in a
cool summer night. I felt it all around me. There were no mile markers, so I
kept track of how far I’d gone by how many hills I’d come over. I didn’t count
them, but each one put me a little farther away from Grinnell.  

The last one I took was a neverending downhill. At the bottom there was a road
closed barrier with flashing lights. Across the bike trail there was orange
fence, which was hard to see, and I was lucky I braked before I got to it. The
lake was strangely bright. I stopped the bike and stood looking at it. There
was a sound of waves hitting a wall, but it took me a while to figure out what
it was. I sat on a dock and put my feet in the water. I wandered around and
felt the soft breeze bouncing off the lake to me. It picked up a part of the
lake as it went by. Wind has the character of all the places it’s visited. If I
could understand the language of the wind, maybe I would be everywhere. I
turned around and biked back up the hill. I know how many hills there are from
Rock Creek to Grinnell: the same number as there are from Grinnell to Rock
Creek. I assume it’s the same number in the daytime, but it wouldn’t be quite
the same overall. The Milky Way followed me to the outskirts of town, and then
it disappeared.

* * *

I was hungry, but it was 0130 and everything was closed, so I had to get food
through slightly illegal means, with the help of three other determined guys. I
won’t elaborate, so I don’t incriminate any of us. In any case, I slept well.
By the way, it was too dark to see if there were any good krokay places, so
I’ll have to go back there in the day sometime.
