---
title: Day 3
date: 2007-03-03T03:52:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2007-03-day-3
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2007/03/day-3.html
categories:
  - family
tags:
  - Crowduck

---
I didn’t get up until about 1000 today, and then Dad and I went out to that one
spot before Darkwater that we keep fishing. We found a real hot spot, too,
about twenty yards from shore. We pulled five fish out of it over a two- or
three-hour period, I three pike and Dad a pike and a bass. A little later we
strayed a bit and Dad found one pike, for a total of six. Toward the end, as
per a forecast the dockhands had told us, it started getting really windy, and
choppy, setting the scene for the rest of the day. When we pulled back in, the
dockhands told us and Grandma and Grandpa (just a little behind us) that they
got a call to the effect that the backcountry trail ban is lifted. Ha! Dad got
the key to Ritchie right away, but later Dan and Tracy convinced him that with
the wind we’ve got Ritchie is a really bad idea. You’d blow right over to the
other side and bust your tail getting back. We also didn’t fish Gull today
because of the wind.

Micah and Mom and Dad and I went out a bit later to the same place, in two
boats (Micah in mine), but we only pulled in two fish in an hour. Micah got one
of them, but it was a walleye. 

The squirrels are a great source of amusement around here. Sierra and Jazmin
and some of the adults were doing what they could to vex this one poor little
squirrel who was very energetic and always proclaiming his dominion from his
treetop in front of Cabin 4. <span class="small-caps">(BREAK)</span> Micah got
caught up in the action too, and jumped and went “RAAH!” He landed on the
squirrel. There was a a shock, and then it started twitching, and Micah went
“Oh my God, oh my God, oh my God,” and Dad told him to take it away to another
place. After he did it got a lot quieter in front of the cabin. The squirrel
died. I don’t know what will become of his tree.

Later there was a horseshoe game, or rather several, all of which Dan and Tracy
won. Then I fished off the dock and watched Jim and Mike, the two dockhands,
clear out boats from day trippers. Then there was dinner. Dinner was the same
as last night, so, terrific. Micah had been jonesing to play I Doubt It (BS),
so we played that for him right after dinner, and while we were playing,
Grandma and Tracy came in with his birthday cake and we all sang to him. I had
three slices of his cake, which Tracy made (thank you). We played Pig (Spoons),
and then got into poker.

I lost my lead. I think I only took in one good hand all night. No, two.
Meanwhile, Grandpa absolutely cleaned up. I think he made $20 on the night. We
played some In-Between briefly, but I didn’t get in because it’s too risky. It
ended up Dave put in about $10 and everyone else lost a bunch, and Maria took
it all on an A-2. There were so many posts. I was about ready to buy in again,
but everyone left. So I got out my journal. Now, I bet you’re wondering what
that <span class="small-caps">BREAK</span> was back there. That was where some
people came and said there were Northern Lights. I went out there. I had
already gone, I forgot to mention, with Dan and Ellen, but there was nothing
and Aunt Ellen ended up just telling us about whooping cranes. But this time I
got to watch an absolutely tremendous display of lights. Now, I am not going to
attempt to extemporaneously describe the Northern Lights, but I’ll say that at
one point they did quite literally take my breath away. They were mostly green,
but they were edged with red sometimes. They were mostly concentrated in one
sector of the sky, and we watched them from the Point. I saw some that snaked
around up closer to me, and one that split like curtains at a theater, and
plenty others. You need to see them.

I understand Dad is taking me to Ritchie early tomorrow, so I need to get to
bed. Sheez, it’s 0207.
