---
title: Part Deux
date: 2007-08-27T04:51:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2007-08-part-deux
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2007/08/part-deux.html
categories:
  - Manito-wish
  - adventure

---
So, I last left you at the end of the first night of canoeing. Now we will move
on to the rest of the trip. On day 2, we got up at about 0700, ostensibly, but
really between 7 and 8. This was to be a patern for the rest of the trip,
actually. We spent the morning creating an enormous breakfast of hash browns
with cheese and eggs stirred in, and lots of bacon. We finally had camp struck
and got on the water around 1100. Within a little while, we’d gotten off of
Alder Lake and onto the Manitowish River. I think I was rowing with Micah
Bot-Miller at this time. It wasn’t too bad, mostly, and went by a few
waterfront houses. Then we found ourselves in a field. Grass rose up on all
sides and we couldn’t see the river any farther. It turned out that there was a
path through the grass, but barely. When we got through the grass, we were into
just more grass. A different GOOP group, which had started halfway down the
trail coming the opposite way, came by us and said nonchalantly, “It gets
worse.” We were in a marsh that must extend for about a square mile, maybe two
or three. Sometimes there was a way through the grass; sometimes we just had to
get out and walk. Eventually it got a little straighter, but this was a cruel
joke. We heard a machine noise in the distance. As we drew nearer, it got
louder. Finally, we arrived at a confluence. Our river joined with another
flowing the opposite way, and both of the rivers flowed into a grate punched
into a tall wall at the bottom of a hill. I went up the hill to take a pee.
There was a motorized pump, working hard and making the ruckus we were amiliar
with, pouring the combined rivers into a manmade flume that ran along the edge
of a deserted but well-mowe field.  In the distance, over much more field, I
saw a tractor or something. There was no explanation. So, we tried to remove
our shoes by dragging the canoes through a shoestring stream whose banks were
covered in sucking mud, all the while being careful not to step into the pool
created by the confluence, because we would then be sucked down into the grate
next to the mysterious, nasty deep water, where who knew what dwelled. We
started rowing up the other river, the Trout River, which, as the other group
had said, was even worse. When we got out to walk the canoe through periodical
shallow water, we were walking on a mud bottom, not gravel. And the walks were
frequent. Moreover, we were still in the marsh. We rowed for hours. Things
failed to improve. Finally, we got to a beaver dam, and the water above it was
a good foot deeper and twenty yards wider. We didn’t have any trouble rowing,
and we were free to make conversation, which we did. However, by now it was
also late, so for the first time in Ilan’s canoeing career, we stopped short of
our intended campsite. The one we found was on the Trout River; another
opposite-traveling group was staying there for the night. So Ilan made another
amazing dinner, of I believe lentils and such, and we had fun with the other
group, but mostly with our own group, getting to know each other. Or telling
stories about stuff in our lives. We liked stories. I’ll tell a couple when I
get to tomorrow night.  

So, we set out earlier the next morning -- instead of an enormous breakfast, we
had granola cereal. There was still another two hours or so of the Trout River
left, if you can believe it. Some of it ran by a golf course.  Some more of it
was completely unpaddleable, about a half inch deep, but by that time it had at
least switched to gravel bottom. Finally, and abruptly, we ended up at the
source of the Trout River: Trout Lake. Just looking out across it, we knew it
would be difficult. The land on either side of us had protected us from the
wind while we were on the river, but now it came galloping across the water at
full speed, and we could tell it meant to bring rain with it soon.  Even so, we
steeled ourselves and pushed out into it, right against the wind.  Trout Lake
is a huge lake. We had a long day of padding across it. But at least we never
had to walk. I think I paddled with Natasha that day. She’s really nice. Kind
of shy, but warms up in not too long, as I said. We should have talked more
while we were on the lake, but we were kind of focused on paddling. At the
other end of the lake, we pulled up the canoes and did our first real portage.  

We’d done a different one earlier, but it was just a few yards. This one was
entirely different. I didn’t carry a canoe, which meant I had to carry two
packs instead, and that was probably just as bad. We staggered down a paved
trail, then across a street and down it a ways, and finally found Stevenson
Creek and put down the canoes. Now, we’d heard horror stories about Stevenson.
We’d heard it was the worst leg of the journey and mostly walking. But this
year, as Ilan said, it “was really forgiving.” It was still the most bizarre
creek that I think I’ll ever canoe on. For the most part, it was only about two
feet wide -- but a foot deep, giving ample paddling depth. At one point, bushes
growing on the banks joined to form an arch over us. At another point, they did
the same, except instead of over us, in front of us, and we had to plow
through. It was surreal to see a creek with a width and twists and turns
comparable to the creeks I’ve creekwalked on, hardly more than storm runs, but
completely paddleable. Chris was the steerer for this, and I’m amazed at the
ease with which he took the hairpin turns and astounding bottlenecks. In the
next couple hours, our groups got very spread out, and the leaders, Micah and
Alex, had no map or leader, so we didn’t know if they’d get lost. Then, it
turned out they were behind us, which puzzled us to no end until they explained
that they had hidden in a niche and waited to pop out and scare us, but then
decided not to, and just paddled silently to confuse us later. We found another
marsh. This one was much more mazelike than the others, and we took several
wrong turns, but eventually we found the second portage. We carried the boats
to Pallette Lake. Ilan carried both an 80# canoe and the ~60# food pack. I’d
heard about Pallette and was expecting the best. It was even better. No motors
are allowed on it, nor even some fishing. So it’s crystal clear. And the banks
are completely free of Improvements imposed on them by civilization. We paddled
briefly across it to another campsite, meeting en route a group that had left
earlier in the morning on the first day, and set up. A few of us swam, but not
all at the same time. Alex swam for about half a second before she got frozen
out. Natasha, on the other hand, frequently swims in Lake Superior, so she was
totally comfortable and had fun and a great exercise. I was somewhere between.
While I swam, I was really impressed with how incredibly clear Pallette’s water
is. Even at an eight-foot bottom, I could see right down to the rocks and sand.
I swam without much aim, and then, getting bored and sort of lonesome with no
one else out there, I walked back up to camp. Dinner was something or other
delicious. Then we sat around talking.  We were discussing strange things that
happen. Chris told us about a time he and his friends were driving through a
suburb at night. Suddenly, an owl came through the sky, swooped down, and
landed in the road right in front of the car. Then it turned its head ninety
degrees and stared at them. For about five minutes. They were too spooked to
move the car. “This has got to mean something,” he thought. Finally it flew off
and they drove directly back home. Chris also told us another strange animal
anecdote. He says the squirrels at Grinnell are famously weird, and said the
weirdest thing he knows of is: his girlfriend was walking along, when she saw,
around the flagpole, a circle of squirrels. They were evenly spaced, and they
were staring up at the flag. She was seriously weirded out. Ilan told us that
he and some friends at a camp once spent a long time cutting some cords to a
perfect length, then woke up at midnight, paddled across a lake to a girls’
campsite, and tied their tents shut. Then he said, “The thing is, that was the
plan. What actually happened is, we slept through the alarm.” Alex had a story
that I missed the first time she told it, where her mother told her and her
sister, who thought boys were gross, I guess: “Some day you will learn to love
a man’s penis.” Josh and Ilan, who are both Jewish, shared their respective
experiences of traveling through the Israeli desert. I don’t know if Natasha
and Micah had any, but they probably did, and I just forgot. I probably told
some too, but I forget which, and anyway they’re probably ones that you’ve
heard already.  

The next morning we shipped off Pallette Lake and went lakehopping. There were
three portages that day. I carried a canoe for two of them. The last one was
the longest portage of the whole trip. Micah carried a canoe along the dirt
road as well as me, but he missed the well camouflaged turnoff, and traveled
about another third again as long as the regular portage with Alex. Ilan ran
and caught up to him and got him pointed in the right direction. Micah carried
the canoe the whole time. He’s incredible. I aspire to be as rugged as that.
Through various lakes and a stream called Nixon Creek, we ended up back on the
Manitowish River. We started by paddling off Boulder Lake onto the Manitowish
River on the left; we would be rejoining it from the right. Boulder Lake is a
wide spot in the Manitowish River. We made camp on the Manitowish, and it was a
great campsite and great campfire and great trail calzones. We were all really
happy, not least because tomorrow involved only about an hour and a half of
paddling. We considered skinny dipping, apparently, but didn’t because only two
people had volunteered, and it was decided that that would be kind of weird,
rather than skinny dipping fun. Micah, ever helpful, filtered lots of water for
us; we think he doesn’t trust water filtered by anyone else. I swam a little,
but there were weeds on the bottom, so not much. We swapped more stories. I
loved every minute of it. That night, I forwent the tent and slept outside in
my sleeping bag under the bright stars.  It was the best possible way to spend
the last night on the trail.  

The next morning, we slept in a little and ended up at Camp Manito-wish again
around 1400. We had dinner there, and we were going to go to a supposedly great
ice cream place, but the slow-witted guy there had closed down early and
wouldn’t reopen for our party of thirty. So we just went to bed. And we rolled
out, back to Grinnell, the next day. And of course I’ll be writing about
Grinnell directly.
