---
title: S N O W
date: 2007-02-13T23:46:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2007-02-s-n-o-w
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2007/02/s-n-o-w.html
categories:
  - fun in the cold
  - snow sculptures

---
It got cold, and then it stayed cold. As a result, Burke’s pond back in Warder
Park behind Whitaker froze over to a very good depth. Micah and I went up on
Sunday to play krokay on it. There was only one wicket on the ice, but that was
the greatest wicket I’d yet had the pleasure to go through. It was great: with
even the slightest tap, a ball would go sliding for about half a minute. It was
hard to get it to stop anywhere near the wicket for a reasonably good next
shot. That was probably the first time I wished I’d taken more shots to get
through (amazingly, I only needed two). However, with all this cold, the one
thing we were missing was snow.

The weatherman told us the story last Monday: a system was moving in, promising
to dump three to five inches on us, starting sometime Tuesday. The snow began
falling as I was in fourth bell at the Building, but it started coming down
really in earnest during about sixth. Whenever an announcement came on,
everyone expected it to be an early dismissal announcement. Eventually, in
seventh bell, it was. Mr Rasulis said they would be letting out middle building
first and then proceeding to high school shortly. People in my class started
whipping out cell phones to call to get picked up. So here’s what the building
did: They waited five minutes and let out middle school bus riders. Then, they
waited ten more minutes and let out middle school in general, prompting Rosie
to shout, “They haven’t even let out middle school yet?” About this time she
also noted: “It takes my mom five minutes to drive here from my house. That
means she’s been sitting out in the parking lot for ten minutes in a cold car.
They _should’ve_ let us out an hour and a half ago, because now everyone’s
driving really carefully and slowly to keep from sliding on the snow, and
they’re also all bocking the buses.” Well, what do you expect? It’s not a real
school. They waited another _fifteen_ minutes, during which we speculated when
we might get out: I figured we would end up not even getting out early. Aaron
took it a step farther and said, “Watch. We’re going to get out _late_. That
would be the ultimate irony.” When we did get out it was ten minutes before
normal dismissal, but I decided I wasn’t going to think of it as getting out
ten minutes early; rather, as getting out half an hour late. I biked home and
got snow all up in my hair and beard, which looked so fetching I had to take a
picture of it.

I learned about nine that night that Wednesday (the seventh) was a snow day. I
also measured the snow after it had finished falling: seven inches.

Keith had given me an idea. I got up at 0700, borrowed a snow shovel, and
started offering to shovel people’s driveways. It was 0815 before I got a
customer, but I ended up shoveling five driveways and building up a good amount
of warmth in the process. All told, I made $81.25 on the day and stayed warm,
and also worked up an appetite. After that I walked up to Warder to check out
how everything was looking. Looking out onto Burke’s Pond, I noticed there were
footprints halfway out onto it. Now, when Micah and I had played krokay there,
we had only gone a little way out. But here, clearly, someone was daring enough
to go out all the way to the middle of the pond; indeed, there appeared to have
been a group of them. I decided to go out too. The whole time, I kept telling
myself: “I must be a dang fool. I’m an idiot.” But the ice held. I became the
first person this winter (and probably for several winters, because this is the
best cold snap I remember) to walk all the way across. I spotted a promising
empty spot near the middle, so I went and made a Vitruvian snow angel. I also
dropped off some pictures at Walgreens. I was extremely satisfied for the day;
it was the best day I’d had in a really long time, perhaps years.

Yesterday, that weatherman was at it again. Originally we were forecast to get
five to ten inches overnight and today, but then it was downgraded to something
like four to six, if any. The system could miss us, he said. This morning I had
almost forgotten about all that, but my alarm was luckily tuned to 700 WLW,
where they were reading school closings. The guy stopped at the end of the E’s
and said, “Let’s take a break and we’ll start with the F’s.” So then they took
five agonizing minutes to do a weather report, a traffic report, a _sports_
report, and an airport report. Then the guy started reading again.
Fayetteville, Felicity, Finneytown, Franklin. All closed. Ha! I went back to
sleep. Ha!

Later today, Micah and I walked up to Panera. He wanted to eat somewhere else,
but I had the money, thanks to last Wednesday. On the way, we admired the
exquisite havoc. Our street wasn’t even plowed yet; it didn’t get plowed until
1430\. We saw a pine tree that was severely droopy. Winton was fine, to my
dismay. I took my camera along and stocked up on pictures of the ice
everywhere. There was an especially interesting layer that had formed on a sign
and partially slipped off, leaving a clear replica of the sign. 

Panera was good. I have a tradition of using names that are not actually mine
at Panera. In the past I’ve used Spock, Vladimir, and Ivanhoe. Today I used
Santa Claus. The guy who called it out said, “A little late for that, isn’t
it?”

We walked back. I should note that the sidewalks were not even visible. There
was of course a thick layer (well, a quarter inch or so) of ice on top of the
snow. I was extraordinarily happy. Snow days are the best days ever.

Back in the house, I contemplated how to spend the rest of the day. I was
reading _Calvin and Hobbes_, and I suddenly realized what I needed to do. It
was heavy snow, but I was determined. I started by building up a very large
pile of snow with a shovel. Then I started shaping it by hand. I got the shovel
and carved a big hole in the pile. I added features and sticks. And then I took
pictures. It’s a replica of the famous Calvin sculpture “The Torment of
Existence Weighed against the Horror of Nonbeing”. It is the greatest thing
ever, especially for a _Calvin and Hobbes_ person such as myself.

{% include fig.html src="File0001.png" %}

> “Look at that kid’s snowman! What a pathetic cliché!
> 
> “Am I supposed to identify with this complacent moron and his shovel?? This
> snowman says nothing about the human condition! Is this all the kid has to
> say about contemporary suburban life?!
> 
> “The soulless banality of this snowman is a sad comment on today’s art world. 
> 
> “Now come look at _my_ snowman.
> 
> “I call it, ‘The Torment of Existence Weighed against the Horror of
> Nonbeing.’
> 
> “As he melts, the sculpture will become even more poignant.”
> 
> “I admire your willingness to put artistic integrity before marketability.”  

<span class="small-caps">Copyright Bill Watterson. Reproduced here only for
illustrative purposes. (Please do not sue me, Mr Watterson; I have no ill
intentions and I love you dearly. And I’ll take it down if you want me
to)</span>

{% include fig.html src="The Torment of Existence Weighed against the Horror of Nonbeing 5.jpg" %}

{% include fig.html src="The Torment of Existence Weighed against the Horror of Nonbeing 2.jpg" %}

{% include fig.html src="The Torment of Existence Weighed against the Horror of Nonbeing 4.jpg" %}

