---
title: Politix Xtreme
date: 2007-03-28T01:04:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2007-03-politix-xtreme_27
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2007/03/politix-xtreme_27.html
categories:
  - politics
  - USA
  - creekwalking

---
Okay, it’s time for me to say something. We both know that it’s very seldom
that I make any sort of political comment. In fact, I think this will be the
first time I make one here.  

I saw _An Inconvenient Truth_ in biology class. It struck me as rather
astoundingly good and I figured that one of the main reasons people are doing
so little about global warming is that they know so little about it and they
think it might not even be happening or that it’s a trivial little thing (1.7°C
-- it sounds so meaningless!), and then I figured that if people watch this
movie they’ll finally be educated, and that’s the first step to solving the
problem. That’s what Al Gore was thinking when he made it.  

So I encouraged Mom and Dad to watch it. The results were less than
spectacular, but enlightening in a couple different ways. To begin, Mom rented
it as a one-night rental at about 2300. Dad refused to let us use the living
room TV on the pretense that he was currently watching _Romancing the Stone_
(which, not more than half an hour earlier, he had called a “throwaway movie”).
I plugged the external DVD player in anyway and it started playing. He said:
“Unplug the fucking thing and let me watch the movie. Now.” Mom, Micah, and I
watched it in Micah’s room on a small television in a cramped space.  

Over the next few days after the viewing, Mom and Dad did all they could to
refute all of Al’s points. Dad was the most diligent at it. He pointed me to a
slideshow (to see: click on [“view
slideshow”](http://www.cei.org/pages/ait_response.cfm)). In the interest of
impartiality, I’ll tell you a few things the slideshow got right:  

It admitted that global warming is happening.  

It pointed out a couple graphs that Al Gore cut off before 1947, making them
misleading.  

It noted that the international science community says Al is overstating things
a bit. (This does not mean that it is a trivial problem. It means that Al
overstated it a bit to make it even bigger. It’s possible to overstate even
very large problems: for example, I could say, “Global warming will cause the
earth to collapse in upon itself and become a black hole, and any spacecraft
escaping from the planet will not be able to get far enough away and will be
sucked in and destroyed.”)  

But, let me quote myself here. When I finished reading the slideshow, I told
Dad: “There were two or three good points, and the rest was BS.” He said,
“Yes!” trimphantly. I had to inform him, “I was talking about the slideshow,
not the movie.” Here are some problems.  

Right off the bat, it suggests that global warming is actually a good thing!
Think of how much better all our trees will grow with all the extra carbon
dioxide in the air! This completely misses the point that there’s more carbon
dioxide _because_ (partially) there are too few trees to _use_ it! And it
reminds me of the premise for the Colbert Report’s “The Convenientest Truth”,
although I didn’t watch that (I read what the premise was online).  

It misses the point: “There has been no increase in the rate of warming since
the mid-1970s.” But there _is_ warming!  

It tries to make things that are bad sound less bad. It criticizes Al for
describing a breaking ice shelf as being “the size of Rhode Island” because it
sounds scary, and then says that’s only 1/246 the size of the sheet it’s part
of. 1/246 is rather a lot, all things considered, and that is one heck of a big
ice sheet that broke off.  

On page 40 (my favorite page) it forecasts doom and death for the whole world
if the United States isn’t allowed to burn fossil fuels like crazy, by implying
that our carbon dioxide emissions are the only thing that enables us to be a
force of good in the world. “Without our CO2 emissions, the world would be
poorer, sicker, and less free.”  

It ascribes scientists’ viewpoints solely to their desire for money (on page
42).  

It’s overall almost totally inconclusive, picking on little bits of the movie
and failing to discount the main point.  I’ve taken the time out to criticize
this to show how much some people -- in this case, Dad -- will seek out and
believe in the name of politics. Let the record show that I believe as much as
the next person that Al Gore is something of a joke. Look at his personal
emissions, for instance; he uses I think 30 times more energy than the average
American. But this does not mean that he’s wrong about everything; just that
he’s hypocritical there. Dad thinks it does mean he’s wrong about everything.
Actually, he thinks Al Gore is wrong about everything because he’s a Democrat.
And that is the point of this story.  

Why do politics turn people against each other so viciously? Dad now won’t hear
a word said in defense of anything Al Gore says or does. Gore is a godless,
nonscientific Democrat. Dad has a deep loathing of Democrats as people, as far
as I can tell. He’s not the only one. I was recently in his truck and got the
treat of listening to talk radio spouted forth by Rush Limbaugh. Talk about a
man who can’t stand Democrats. Anything a Democrat says, for him, is instantly
wrong; his callers who try to tell him something from an opposing viewpoint are
“idiots” (though it doesn’t help that many of them actually are, such as the
woman who called in to protest clubbing baby seals and then admitted to wearing
leather and couldn’t, despite all efforts, be made to see the conflict of
interests). What must it be like to be so deeply prejudiced, have such an
all-consuming hatred, for something like half of America? How can he walk in
public -- is he afraid he’ll breathe air that Democrats have breathed? Is it
like being a member of the KKK? Rush Limbaugh, Sean Hannity, George W. Bush,
and an extensive list of others. It’s incredible, to me. It’s incredible how
blind a person can be if there’s an opposition of principles, even if the
principles are irrelevant to the issue at hand. It’s incredible how nitpicking
differences in principles can drive two sane people to hate each other so
completely. I will not join a political party. George Washington knew the
dangers of parties, but nobody wanted to listen. I will, at least.


* * *


Let’s leave that melancholy subject and go on to a different one. I turned 18.
And it was great.  

Mom and Dad and Micah and I and (I tried to stop it, but still) Micah’s friend
Tyler went up to Oxford. Grandma took us to Hueston Woods. I decided to hike
barefoot. This is a new thing that I’m all enthusiastic about. I like to go
around barefoot, even in places where most don’t think it’s really okay. It is
okay. For one thing, there is no law that you have to have shoes on in any
establishment. The Health Department doesn’t care. As for broken glass, well,
it’s very little danger if you use your eyes (so that’s what those are for!).
Feet are also much more resilient than most people think. I didn’t sustain any
wounds during the whole hike. I was walking on all sorts of terrains: Straight
dirt at first, but then I got in the creek. And it was really slick, but, with
my keen sense of balance, I managed to stay approximately upright. I finished
crossing the creek and I was on low-growing plants in mud. I continued along
the creek and found Tyler and Micah behind a few trees. Tyler had lit up a
cigarette. I just pulled it out of his mouth and chucked it in the creek. I
know it’s littering, and I wish I’d done it differently, but it was sort of
necessary. Micah got defensive (the best defense is a good offense?) and said,
“You know those things cost money?!” I said, “Yep.” And without a word we
continued walking. I stayed in the creek sometimes and on the bank sometimes.
The creekbed is rocky. The rocks are all slick, but I found I could walk with
nearly normal stability if I didn’t try to stay on the higher ones close to the
surface but rather walked indiscriminately on the bottom. I came to the bottom
of the cliff, crossed the water, and climbed the cliff, which is made mostly of
mud and gravel-type rocks. The cliff affords a disorienting and very pretty
view. I met Grandma at the top and kept walking now with her instead of Micah
and Tyler. The trail got muddy -- that thick black mud that’s mixed with
leaves. I enjoyed every step of it. We finished the trail and walked back to
the van.  

And we had dinner: pork roast, mashed potatoes, gravy, broccoli, bread, and
salad. Afterwards I had my birthday cake (angel food with white icing). I’m now
18\. Can you believe it? Yeah, so can I. But it’s an innovative concept. I can
now do things minors can’t do: withdraw money from my own account (balance:
$32), cash checks, stay out after 2300, sign stuff with an official signature,
enter strip bars. Now, society regards me as a sovereign entity, though an
irresponsible one. It makes you think.  

On Sunday I went to the Symphony for the first time (not that I couldn’t before
I was 18, but I never had), and they had the biggest chandelier I’ve ever seen.
It was about fifteen feet across and must have weighed at least a ton. It was
also suspended about 50 feet above the floor seats, and Mom and I tried to
figure out how they change the light bulbs. I finally worked out that they must
be able to lower it. The music was also fantastic like a majestic river running
through the countryside (that would be Smetana’s _The Moldau_), fantastic with
the best piano playing I’ve ever personally seen from Piotr Anderszewski
(Bartók’s _Piano Concerto No. 3_), and simply fantastic (Berlioz’s _Symphonie
Fantastique_).  

And on Monday, I had a couple friends -- Matt and Aaron (Keith was invited, but
he got grounded) -- over to LaRosa’s, and we amused ourselves finding strange
words in the word search, some of which took some doing and considerable
rule-bending to get to. That wasn’t all we did, of course: that would make us
extraordinarily lame.  

Another item is colleges. My letters are coming in from the colleges I’ve
applied to. I got one from Carleton last week. Something happened that I wasn’t
expecting: they won’t let me in. Neither will Kenyon. I’m still waiting for
Grinnell’s answer. I expected to have to make a difficult choice between fine
institutions. I didn’t expect the choice to be made for me. But there it is,
all at once. It happened pretty quickly. And it didn’t strike me until later
the full scope of it. Mom had to convince me that I should be upset before I
realized I was. I had envisioned my coming years on a quiet, green campus with
a small amount of dedicated students. Carleton. Pine forests, cool weather,
Minnesota winters, freezing lakes, “Minnesota Nice”. Kenyon. Old friendly
buildings, rolling green quad, relaxing air, calmness from being
well-established. I realized. Their doors are shut to me for at least another
year. They won’t let me in. Even if I ask nicely. It’s a pretty depressing
thought.  

But I’m resilient. I can’t stay very sad for very long. Now I have left Miami
and maybe Grinnell. Miami doesn’t have the relaxed atmosphere and peaceful
green campus of Kenyon; it won’t have the great winters or two attendant lakes
I could have looked forward to at Carleton. But it’s not without merits. Its
programs, of course, are one. It has a new writing school, just now made with a
donation. I can major and take classes in all sorts of things. And Oxford is a
nice town. My grandparents found it agreeable enough to live there or forty
years so far. Grinnell is still a possibility, too, and it’s a good school too.
Depending on whether I get in and how much money they give me if I do, I might
end up going there. It’s certainly a great little place.  

That’s all I’m going to write for now, except for this: I’ve made a couple new
shirt designs, and I’m Commanding you to go look at them
[here](http://www.cafepress.com/permanentmark3). And feel free to check out my
other [two](http://www.cafepress.com/permanentmark2)
[stores](http://www.cafepress.com/permanentmarker) Maybe you’ll actually buy
one. They are exceedingly nice and well-designed shirts. You coud do a lot
worse, if I do say so myself.
