---
title: Day 5
date: 2007-03-03T04:26:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2007-03-day-5
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2007/03/day-5.html
categories:
  - family
tags:
  - Crowduck

---
A few brief notes from the present first:

1. This is the third of three sequential new posts. 
2. I’ve made a couple new T-shirts, which you can see at
   [www.cafepress.com/permanentmark3](http://www.cafepress.com/permanentmark3),
   and maybe you’ll buy something from one of my three stores.

Now, on with Crowduck.


* * *

I got up around 1100 today. I persuaded Micah to come with me to the Square
Cove. And man, let me tell you, he did nothing but complain. At first he fished
too and just complained that there are never any fish there (a valid complaint,
actually), but then his rod crapped out and he decided he only uses his very
own (sucky) rod, and none of the other perfectly good ones in the boat would
suffice. So I just trolled and drifted or a while, alternately, listening to
him complain that he never catches any fish, he wanted to go back to camp, he
didn’t like the Square Cove, he was bored, [and] his rod was crappy; and it was
quite grating. He quoted Dad as saying to go back in if we spotted whitecaps,
and Micah found some out in the open water, and after a lengthy wait just to
get back at him for complaining, I turned back, but made sure to troll all the
way, or a long way at least, back. Dad later noted that he said to _move
closer_ if there were whitecaps.

So, having gotten fed up with Micah, I teamed up with Dad, Mom, and Erin to go
out to Gull Rock. It took a while for us to get going, but we eventually did,
and it was really windy and choppy. I got soaked by the spray. When we finally
reached the rock, the water was so down from last year that our former docking
spot was two feet away on dry land. Dad rigged it somehow -- it involved him
getting waist-deep in the water -- and we all started fishing.

It was a great day at Gull Rock. I sat next to Erin and discussed Homestar and
Cake, and everyone pulled in fish. All except me. I got one good-sized bass,
and much later on, one tiny one that we didn’t keep. Meanwhile Dad and Mom and
Erin were pulling out bass (and walleye) one after another, and Erin pulled out
this walleye that turned out to be an absolutely enormous bass. The official
measurement was 19½ inches, and 18 inches qualifies for a Master Angler
certification, so now Erin is a Master Angler. I guess I’m just bad at fishing. 

There was dinner, after Nick (now 79) told his famous Mrs Pitt’s Pot joke, and
before we even finished eating, I instituted a game of poker for imaginary
bets. Some sample bets: three million dollars, six million dollars, eight
billion dollars, Greenland, Neptune, Michael Jackson, a dozen empty beer cans
plus a pine cone, and a dentist’s office. Once, Erin bet Sweden, and I called
and raised six grains of sand, but she called my bluff!

[Then we got real] poker started up. I must really suck at poker, because I
lost quite consistently. I lost I think three or six bucks, and then later (I
think it was three) $1.50 more. It was down to Dan and Micah head-to-head or a
while and Micah was surprisingly kicking Dan to the curb, but then I bought in
and Tracy bought in (that was the $1.50 that I lost). (As you can tell, I’m not
planning very far ahead with my writing here.) There was hot chocolate courtesy
of Grandma. Crowduck is great, isn’t it?

The sky was dark with no moon, but that’s because it was covered with clouds.
Dan and Tracy and Co. say there’s a storm blowing in -- they saw it lighting up
the sky off in the distance -- so I’m going to go look at that.
