---
title: Rally
date: 2007-12-05T05:53:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2007-12-rally
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2007/12/rally.html
categories:
  - politics

---
There’ve been a lot of presidential candidates coming to Grinnell recently. I
haven’t gone, though, because I have a lot of work, and that doesn’t so much
prevent me from going as it limits my face-to-face interaction with persons, so
I don’t find out about them. Mitt Romney came, as did Joe Biden. I didn’t go to
either of those. Today, though, I went and saw Barack Obama talk. Yep, right
here at the college, in the Harris Center for those of you who are familiar
with the place. I went at 1830, just as the thing was starting, and was
disappointed to find myself shunted into an overflow theater. There was a live
audio feed from the full concert center just across the hall. There was also a
screen, but nothing was being projected onto it. I thought, “This sucks pretty
comprehensively,” and stood in the hall, only to be told that I wasn’t allowed
to stand in the hall. So I made to leave, but as I did, a door from the
entryway into the concert hall was opened, and I and a few other people snuck
in through there.  

The entire room was filled, so it was good planning to have Obama on a raised
platform. He made a rather good speech about how we need to leave behind the
politics of pandering and start doing what’s right. Of all the candidates I’ve
heard of, Obama is the only one I can support. This is probably mainly because
I’ve heard very little about the other candidates. The Obama faction is pretty
active in Grinnell, postering on all the walls and bathrooms. The posters I’ve
read describe him as a really honest guy, who gave a carbon-reduction speech in
Detroit because he wasn’t going to make two different speeches in California
and Detroit. I know next to nothing about the Republican candidates; they don’t
really get much attention in Grinnell. But Obama seems like a guy with real
goals and a real plan, whereas the rest of the candidates are “Not George W.
Bush!”.  

I realize this bit of politics is extraordinarily biased and that I could do
with knowing more about the rest of the contenders, but I think there’s at
least some grain of truth in it. Obama’s a good guy.
