---
title: And wrap-up
date: 2007-03-04T19:44:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2007-03-and-wrap-up
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2007/03/and-wrap-up.html
categories:
  - family
tags:
  - Crowduck

---
Three new posts today; this is the third.

* * *

I apparently avoided having to pack stuff up -- I just woke up at 0600, put in
a few things that hadn’t made it into the Limos, and climbed in. A few last
pictures. Of course I wish I were still there. I get used to it, somewhat.

We had taken the drive through the dense Canadian forest and then the brisk
ride across Big Whiteshell and packed our stuff onto the van by 0646. Then it
was smooth, boring sailing. We stopped for dry ice in Canada while I was
half-asleep, and I woke up somewhere before Fort Frances. And there was a line
to get through the border. First we did some stuff at a cluster of buildings on
the Canadian side, -- Grandpa got his GST tax back or whatever that is -- and
then we joined up the queue. It was set to have ten minutes of absolute
standstill followed by a minute of brisk movement and then a repeat. We joined
the line at 1130 and finally got to the interrogation booth at 1230. The line
was at least a mile long. (I had Aunt Ellen listen to _Long Line of Cars_ [by
Cake].) At the booth a sour-faced man gave us a stern warning that we weren’t
supposed to carry _all_ the fish back from the trip, just the share from the
people in our car, and if a conservation officer caught us the fine would be
$200 per fish. (We were only four over limit, so it’s not like we’d be fined
for all 39 fish.) We learned that the line was due to a composite of things:
construction, and an orange terror alert due to a foisted plot in England. We
had lunch after a fashion at Sandy’s Place in International Falls -- my burger
was okay, but the older folks said the soup they got was _WAY_ too salty -- and
moved on again. 

Next stop of note: Eau Claire, our motel for the night. We found our rooms in
the Antlers Inn (all 15 of us), and then walked to a great restaurant called
Draganetti’s. Six of us ate outdoors, three indoors (the older ones), and
Dave’s family had pizza at the motel. I couldn’t eat it all, but it was superb. 

So now we’re back at the motel. Dad and I watched a crappy community band on
community TV, and then we all watched Comedy Central for a while. I borrowed
Dad’s pen from his shirt and wrote my journal. That’s all.

* * *

Here’s something that for some reason never made it to the journal.  One day --
maybe day 4 or 5 -- Dan instituted a scheme he’d heard about for keeping bees
away. What you do is fill a bottle with Kool-Aid, and then they all flock to
that instead of to your drinks. So he made some and put it in a little 16-ounce
water bottle, and put that on top of the disused concrete barbecue in front of
Cabin 6.

The next day someone glanced over at it and noticed something decidedly
strange. There was a dead mouse in the bottle. Here’s what apparently happened:
It smelled or saw the Kool-Aid. Then it climbed three vertical feet up some
concrete blocks. Then it somehow got in through the mouth of the bottle -- and
remember, this bottle’s mouth is the same size as a typical pop bottle’s --
_without toppling_ the precariously placed bottle at any point during the
process. Once inside, it realized its folly, but was unable to tip the bottle
over, even though it was probably at least a third of its weight. So it
drowned, and we found it the next day. I’ll probably use that at some point
when I eventually write books. Want something so bad, and your downfall is when
you finally get it. Are animals eligible for the Darwin Awards?

* * *

And, since you’ve all been clamoring for it, here’s that picture of me that I
mentioned the other day, dutifully scanned into my computer. It’s not the ideal
picture (for example, much of my face is cut out and you can’t see all the tons
of snow that were in my hair), but I was taking it myself with my camera at
arm’s length, so I didn’t have any way to aim it just right.

{% include fig.html src="Snowbikin%27.png" %}

