---
title: Day 7
date: 2007-03-04T19:17:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2007-03-day-7
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2007/03/day-7.html
categories:
  - family
tags:
  - Crowduck

---
I got up not in time to go out fishing with anyone, so I had fun with Sierra
some more, and Erin and folks too. Eventually I stumbled out and found Mom and
Dad on the porch, which was a bit puzzling because what I didn’t mention is
that I fished off the dock for about an hour and they didn’t come in. But then
I realized they must’ve been in the bedroom the whole time. Dad asked if I
still wanted to go to the falls, and I said if he was feeling up to it. See,
the way to the Falls is really shallow, and this year since it’s been so dry
the water is down about two feet from last year, maybe one or more from usual,
so Dan was giving us stories about how they had to have a spotter on the bow,
and even then the engine sometimes hit rocks. Well, Dad was feeling up to it,
so we went. It was windy and sort of choppy, and a long ride. And then the
narrow channel was very shallow. But the engine never hit any rocks, only maybe
sand once or twice. We got to the far-end-of-the-lake dock without incident. 

We had heard it was really the Crowduck Trickle this year, and that was to some
extent true. It was still obviously several magnitudes more majestic than
anything back home, but there wasn’t a whole lot slipping down, and I could
easily jump over it, at most places. I like Crowduck Falls, because the water
doesn’t fall, but rather slides down a steep slope and dashes itself senseless
against rocks. Dad and I were able to walk to the bottom and look up to the
top. Then I noticed things swimming around at the bottom, lots of them. At
first I thought they might be fry, but they proved to be tailfins of a whole
bunch of idiot walleye that had fallen over the Falls. Only walleye, too. They
were trapped in a trough lined with big rocks on all sides. [There were also
two that had ended up on top of rocks and died. It was really eerie, because
they had been dead there for so long that they had dried up into desiccated
eyeless husks of fish.]

Well, Dad picked one up [with his hat], and tossed it downstream. He did that
for three of them, and then we got the net. There were probably about 25 in
that little 5-square-foot trough. It was hard to find them because the Falls
constantly renewed our supply of foam atop the water. But eventually we got
most of them, and I created an outlet so any newcomers could get out. The [two
that were left after I did that] were pretty stupid, and we ended up netting
one of them out. But one found its way!

We brought the boat to North Bay for two pike, one for each of us, and then
back to camp and cleaned it out. There was horseshoes: Maria and I finally put
an end to Dan and Tracy’s 7-0 record! And then dinner. There was too much food,
especially baked beans. If everyone had eaten four helpings of beans, we’d
probably still have plenty left over. I had a good blueberry muffin courtesy of
Tracy.

After dinner I played bedtime with Sierra: I go to sleep with an imaginary
tooth under my pillow and wake up with money, and then I buy something from
Sierra. I started the imaginary money at a quarter and I was up to $16 when I
decided to let Sierra decide the amounts. (They were $100 and $80.) I bought a
new car with $4.

Then there was poker. Grandpa was in for only one pot, all-in blind. Three
people called and Erin won with an Ace-high. Grandpa had 6-2 off-suit. Dave
left after one more hand, with no money. So Dan, Micah, Maria, Erin, and I
battled it out. Micah bought out soon. I was getting hands! I took Dan for a
huge pot where I flopped an eight to triple my pocket eights and then two sixes
came up and Dan thought I hit them and thought I had trip sixes with a bad
kicker (he had 6-A). That was the high point, though it was early. My streak
didn’t last long at all, though, because everyone left. 

Also tonight we had the Pretzel Inquisition. After he got out, Micah came in
with some pretzels and Dan asked where he got them, and Micah said from
(Tracy’s famous) Chex Mix. Dan got all mad and asked why Micah had to be told
so many times not to just pick stuff out of the Chex Mix, and ended up asking
the witnesses if Micah had picked out pretzels, or, as he claimed, taken an
indiscriminate handful and eaten the pretzels last. Grandpa said next year he
was going to eat whatever he wanted out of the Chex Mix and Dan and Tracy said
fine, they wouldn’t bring any. I later found out that after a while Tracy went
to her bedroom and then came out in a snit and dumped all the Chex Mix in the
trash. So now Dan is the Chex Mix Nazi, thanks to Mom, who came up with that.

We all cooled down and went to bed. Departure at 0600 tomorrow.
