---
title: Studies Show Finneytown Secondary Campus Not a Real School
date: 2007-02-04T02:15:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2007-02-studies-show-finneytown-secondary
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2007/02/studies-show-finneytown-secondary.html
categories:
  - high school
  - Not a Real School

---
This was Keith’s discovery. I remember it well: one day, he sat down in first
bell and just asked me, “Is this a real school?” He had determined that it
isn’t. The first and best tip-off is that it doesn’t even call itself a school.
Up until my junior year, we had a wooden sign out front that animatedly
proclaimed, FINNEYTOWN HIGH SCHOOL. Then they renamed the school to “Finneytown
Secondary Campus” and received a new sign: it’s stone and has engraved (in
Times New Roman, small, and aligned to the left, not centered as it should be)
<span class="smallcaps">Finneytown Secondary Campus,</span> and, below that
and almost the same size, <span class="smallcaps">Gift of the Class of
2005</span>. it’s an exceedingly disheartening and half-assed sign. Another
clue is that the State of Ohio rated us “effective”, not “excellent”. So that
means I’m learning effectively. That explains why Mrs Otten was loath to teach
the class the correct way to solve the [phone number problem]({% post_url
2006-03-15-buy-now-while-supplies %}) last year. And why, the day before exams
started last month and Miss Miller was doing review, she gave in to the class’s
clamor and let us all play Heads Up, Seven Up. If this were a real school,
nobody in high school would have wanted to do that, and the teacher wouldn’t
have let them anyhow. Besides these rather major things, there are subtle clues
all over that Finneytown isn’t a real school. When Keith and I find ourselves
wondering why something in Finneytown is, the answer is usually that it’s not a
real school. For example, at lunch Keith asked me, “Why does that clock say
8:24?” I told him, “Because this isn’t a real school.” Why did Mr Crawley mark
me wrong on a question for which there was no correct answer? He told the class
it was because, if none of the answers seems quite right, you should pick the
term that’s most related to the issue raised in the question, even if it’s
wrong. That is to say, if the question is “2+4=?” and the choices are
“dasanki”, “Massachusetts”, “13”, and “efflorescence”, the correct answer is
13\. Keith and I quickly realized that the real reason I got the question marked
wrong was that Finneytown isn’t a real school, and, additionally, Mr Crawley
isn’t a real teacher. He’s just a monitor who makes sure we all do
psychology-related sorts of things. Most of the teachers at Finneytown are
actually monitors, in fact, excepting only Dr White, Mr Volz, and Mr Rahn. Mr
Rahn still isn’t a real teacher, though, but more of a computerized
correspondence course. In a real school, the English teacher wouldn’t spend
twenty minutes one day talking about her cats, and she would actually read the
journal entries she makes us write in our composition books (I believe she has
yet to open one of them). Our school lunches are obviously not real--hot wings
drowning in vinegar, chicken patties made bulkier with rubber, and sandwiches
with one slice of meat. Our mascot is the Wildcat, which isn’t even a real
animal. Coming up with it required zero thought; the person whose job it was
clearly had heard of some other team named the Wildcats and copied off of them.
The Wildcat logo we have everywhere is just a ripped-off version of the UK
Wildcat, and it’s been copied so many times by such inexpert artists that it no
longer even has a nose. We’ve made some other discoveries, too. For example,
the sidewalks at Finneytown Secondary Campus aren’t really paved with concrete,
but with children’s broken dreams. In the bathroom, Keith regarded the sink
water and said, “You know this isn’t a real school; that’s not really water,
it’s the saliva of all the students.” Then he made a disgusted face and said,
“Ouhww!” thus becoming the first person I know to gross himself out. We assume
that on May 31st, we won’t actually graduate; instead of a diploma we’ll just
receive a blank piece of paper plus an unemployment form. Since realizing this,
we’ve taken a pretty dim view of our education in general, and we’re kind of
depressed that we haven’t actually been going to school all these years. It’s
also sort of freeing, though, to be enlightened while everyone else still has
all this school spirit and thinks they’re getting a real education. That
doesn’t make up for it, of course.
