---
title: 'That’s all'
date: 2007-06-03T18:54:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2007-06-thats-all
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2007/06/thats-all.html
categories:
  - krokay
  - high school

---
Before I start here, I would like you all to note -- shoot, I’m
going to write this later. Pfffft. I’m taking a walk.

* * *

I wrote that a couple days ago. I seriously needed a break from the internet. I
think I’m ready to write now, right now. What I wanted you to note was that
this is my one-hundredth post. *[Note from 2017: Not any more. I've taken a lot
down on grounds of being of no interest to anyone.]* Even were it not, it would
be a significant milestone.

Today, class, we’re going to talk about my graduation party. There were
two parts to it. The first part was a krokay party. I invited my friends Tara,
Matt, Keith, and Aaron. I sent instructions to meet at an obscure turnout off a
road in Winton Woods. I showed up a while ahead of time and hiked into the
woods to set up the course -- a twelve-wicket course this time, instead of
a regular nine-wicket course. Here are handy diagrams, for no especially good
reason: 

{% include fig.html src="allpurposetemp.png" %}

Dots are stakes. Little lines are wickets. The captions are the
names of the various wickets and stakes. Arrows indicate direction of travel.
Duh. The “POISON” at the end means that now, you’ve finished
the course, and you’re poison, as will be described forthwith.  When I
came back to the turnout at noon, I found Tara wandering around in a dry
creekbed. She said she’d gotten there really early and seen me plunge
into the woods, but hadn’t gotten out of her car quick enough to catch up
to me before I disappeared, so she’d just kind of wandered aimlessly
around the creekbed for a while. I walked up to the turnout; she elected to
stay behind and wander a while longer. No one showed up for about fifteen
minutes, so I walked down and asked to borrow Tara’s cell phone. I called
Matt, Aaron, and Keith: Matt was on his way; Aaron had completely forgotten;
Keith had completely forgotten and was, additionally, at work. I walked back up
and found Matt arriving, so we had a three-person game, in anticipation of a
four-person game later, upon Aaron calling back, which he said he would do. 

The course was truly something spectacular. This course is situated at the top
of a lovely hill deep in the forest about 150 yards from a trail. The hilltop
is flat and strewn with a luxurious collection of fallen trees, standing trees,
divots, bumps, stumps, and sticks. It’s all covered with a light,
unintrusive layer of dead leaves to set the mood. We each picked out a ball and
put it through the starting wicket to begin. And then we took off. Tara gained
an early lead when she made it through both starting wickets in one shot, which
Matt and I failed at; as such, she was able to knock her ball halfway to the
first right wicket in her first turn. We soon caught up, though, and all
proceeded to get lost in the complex structure of sticks and logs in which I
had placed that wicket. We moved on, some of us faster than others, to the
first center wicket, for which you have to hit your ball under a log. This
shouldn’t’ve been too challenging, but Matt had difficulty. The
next wicket, the second right wicket, wasn’t too challenging, nestled
against a long log. I like the second center wicket: it’s right between a
big tree and a little tree, and there’s almost a little pathway leading
to it. The third right wicket was difficult simply because it was tough to find
where it was. I realized too late that I’d been hitting my ball in a
totally wrong direction. Near this wicket, there was a fallen tree that, if you
looked at it from the right angle, looked eerily like a giant moray eel in full
ambush posture. No lives were lost, however, as we moved on to the turn
wickets. I had thoughtfully left the turn stake directly in front of a dark,
forbidding hole in the base of a tall tree, but nobody managed to get their
ball into it, which frankly is a shame, because it would have been pretty funny
to watch someone try to get their ball out of a tree using the end of their
mallet. Around this time Aaron called and asked for directions. We pointed him
to the turnout. The leaders at the time -- I think they were Matt and me
-- pushed forward to the first left wicket, while Tara stayed behind, not
having gotten past the turn stake. Aaron called a few more times. When he
called us for the final time, he was already in deep woods, and told us he was
going to find us by echolocation. So he yelled, and then I did. Amazingly, we
only had to do this about three times before he came brushing through the
undergrowth from a completely different angle than I expected. He
couldn’t join in the game, but he did start refereeing for us. We came
back through the second center wicket, and found the second left wicket
underneath a folded tree, and then came back through the first center wicket.
When we play here, I like to perch the third left on the edge of the flat part
of the hill, so that if you miss it, your ball will roll all the way down and
you’ll have to spend several turns knocking it back up to the top. I
approached it first, and managed to get through it unscathed. While I headed
off to the exit wickets with sinister ambitions of becoming poison, Tara fell
down the hill. Matt didn’t, and came hot on my heels, but I drove through
the exit wickets, finishing the course and becoming a poison free agent. Matt
was nearby, so I immediately hit his ball and knocked him out of the game. He
was less than pleased, but accepted it as a tragic turn of fate. Aaron provided
a running commentary as I looked for Tara, who was still coming back up the
hill. Things took a turn for the ugly when she slipped back down and I followed
her. Suddenly, she had poison prospects. It was a race back up to the top. If
she made it to the exit wickets, we would have a double poison game that could
potentially go anywhere in the park. She made it uphill just a turn before me,
but before she could get to the finish line, I stopped her and won the game by
knocking her out.

Unfortunately, we had heard thunder, so we had to go without a second game,
which left Aaron feeling sleighted by nature. We headed back to my house for
phase two of the party. This was a traditional “party” party. Most
of you reading this blog were there, so I don’t need to elaborate much.
Karl was over laboriously making enough food to feed a reasonably sized army,
except that Karl’s food would make an army man, accustomed to MREs, weep
with pleasure. Ribs, chicken, grilled corn on the cob, all in almost obscene
quantities. We still have plenty of leftovers in the freezer; we won’t
need to go out to eat for a while. I just want to note that, over the course of
the day, we had this many people:  Mom Dad Micah Me Matt Aaron Tara Kristen
Rosie Bryce Grandma Grandpa Dave Sierra Hayden Jazmin Dan Tracy Mike Tami
Jackie Nana Papaw Martha Jeff Tawnya Kyle Karl Lt.-Taylor James James Arianna.
I think there may be a few more that I’m missing. That there is 32. 

In addition to several hilarious or sentimental cards (Dan, Rosie, Dave,
Grandma and Grandpa) I got gifts. Martha gave me a handy MiniMaglite. Mike and
Tami gave me a Grinnell hoodie. Jeff and Tawnya gave me a Wal\*Mart gift card.
Dave gave me some money. Grandma and Grandpa gave me a handwritten coupon good
for one free computer, which I really need to get around to deciding what
computer I want to get. I’ll do that by Friday, Grandma and Grandpa. And
Nana and Papaw gave me a spectacular quilt that Nana sewed for me out of a
bunch of different plaids. I love plaids. The quilt is flannel and it’ll
be really warm and great on cold Iowa nights.

And finally, I played a bunch of games of krokay in our backyard, which, though
not quite as extreme as the hilltop earlier, was fairly extreme, because
it’s a hill. Aaron got to play, and I’ve also gotten Bryce hooked
on the fine sport that is krokay. I won a game, Dan won two, and I don’t
remember who won the fourth. People gradually left. Finally, it was just Matt
and Bryce left. We watched some comedians, and then they left too, and we the
residents, too lethargic from all the food to do much cleaning, mostly sat
around or went to bed. It was pretty much the best party ever.

I should have written about graduation here, before writing about the party,
but I didn’t, and now I’m not going to, so I’ll save it for
another post. I’ll also post some pictures of stuff that happened. Now,
I’m-a go to bed.
