---
title: Some miscellany | Crowduck
date: 2007-02-25T23:53:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2007-02-some-miscellany-crowduck
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2007/02/some-miscellany-crowduck.html
categories:
  - reading
  - family
tags:
  - Crowduck

---
_You asked for the best, and you got the best! Ladies and gentlemen, I’m going
to transcribe journal entries from Crowduck into the blog! Metallica! I mean,
no!_

First, I’m going to write down this one thing I thought of the other night.
See, since I decided TV was bad, I’ve been plagued by a nagging feeling: Well,
it’s just a mass medium; why is my mass medium of choice (books) so inherently
superior to it? So I was sitting in bed, just having finished _Babbitt_ by
Sinclair Lewis (tremendous book, by the way, and by that I mostly don’t mean
“long” because it is very good). And it struck me -- a good book is an
invention. It’s not just a command on how to live your life. It’s helping you
along on figuring out how to do it. _Walden_, for example. Thoreau, obviously,
had lived longer than I had when he wrote it, and had more time to think about
the best way of living a life. He put all that experience into a book. Because
of that, I don’t have to spend all my life figuring out the same stuff he did:
I already have it, and now I can continue from that point. Without computers we
wouldn’t be able to get these sorts of complex mathematical and scientific
discoveries that we get every day. Likewise, without certain books our whole
culture (our knowledge of ourselves and of other people and of what to do with
this whole “life” thing) would be set back decades or centuries, and we would
be way less edified in general. Next I have to figure out what’s the point of
edification. <span class="small">Because why would everyone want to be named
Ed?</span>  Okay, on to Crowduck. I’ll leave out travel this year. Note that
Micah and I were traveling with Grandma and Grandpa so we could visit some
colleges (Carleton, Grinnell, Macalester) beforehand, and everyone else came
separately.

* * *

We got Mom up to go shopping [at the Kenora Safeway] at about 0730, though she
kept going back to bed until 0830. The shoppers [Mom, Grandma, and Tracy, I
believe] came back at 0930 or so, and we left. An earlier start than ever, it
happens! While we were on 17, it started raining, and it kept raining off and
on, mostly on, all the way to the drop-off point, causing me to get the song
“It’s Coming Down” [by Cake] lodged in my head. Both vans (Dan, Tracy, Mom,
Dad, and Erin were using a rented van) arrived concurrently, and we called Bill
and waited and he got there on the boats. It was still sprinkling, and kept
sprinkling all the way across Big Whiteshell. I didn’t care. I’m cool. Someone,
one of the dockhands, broke the news that there’s a [governmental] “backwoods
ban” because the summer’s been so dry and they want to know where everyone is
in case of a forest fire: So, we can’t go to Ritchie this year unless there are
at least 40 mm of rain. It didn’t rain but maybe a half inch today, but it’s
raiing tomorrow, so who knows?

[…] 

Ah, the pickup trucks, the Limos. When we pulled into camp, the sky was a lot
clearer. We unpacked and assembled poles and that kind of stuff. After a while,
Dad and I even went fishing, with Micah. I drove to Darkwater Bay. Micah caught
the first fish at 1620, a pike. They said pike are slow this year, but we
caught one. Then, trolling, Dad caught another pike. We threw them both pack
because you can’t keep any the first day I had zero luck. However, there are
practically no bugs this year, because it’s been so dry. It’s great.

At the cabins again, I played in the water with Sierra and Jazmin [Uncle Dave’s
nanny Maria’s daughter], who arrived at 1900 or so. Oh yes, dinner (soup)
first, then water fun. It was cold, but we got used to it, sort of. Jazmin
seems impervious to cold. I swam a couple times to where I couldn’t touch
bottom. It was cool. We must’ve been out there an hour and a half. Vigorous
fun.

Then, poker. At first I played well. Then I ended up sucking. Micah played
absolutely every hand to the end, and he had some luch for a while that way. I
tried to bluff him out once, but he just kept on going and took the pot. I got
out with $6 of debt, but I stuck around to watch Micah lose all his money too.
His strategy turned sour. Mine never was much good, though it did win me some
hands.

Afterwards Dan and Dave and I checked out the skes, and I went to bed. I’d
write in more detail, like I usually do, but I want to fish early tomorrow
