---
title: Hello!
date: 2008-05-26T23:50:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2008-05-hello
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2008/05/hello.html
categories:
  - Manito-wish
  - photos
  - college
  - dad jokes

---
*Note: Pointless parts edited out during blog revamp, 2017.*
{: .prefatory }

Anyone still there? All right. Here’s a month.

I got the job at Manito-wish—I’m not sure whether I ever put that
up here. So, I’m leaving on the 31st, or thereabouts. Hopefully I can
take a Greyhound and save everyone some money. However, the nearest Greyhound
stop is 30 miles off, in Marenisco, Michigan. (Manito-wish is right up by the
northern border. Marenisco is in the Upper Peninsula.) I don’t know
whether there’s any sort of shuttle that brings people there from the
Marenisco station on the proper day. I’m going to call tomorrow. If not,
it might even be interesting to pack up muy bike in a bike box and ride those
thirty miles. Shouldn’t take more than two or three hours. Well, maybe
more since I’d be carrying a backpack. I’m kind of thinking into
the keyboard here. Let’s move on.

All right, now I’m going to fill the rest of this with pictures.


* * *

These six are some pictures from just after a big
storm blew through. 

This is Mac Field.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 003.jpg" %}

These are some trees we have on campus.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 016.jpg" %}

This is a train coming through the college.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 021.jpg" %}

This is the student center—most of the stuff students need is
centralized here.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 023.jpg" %}

The student center, and also East Campus. And a rainbow.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 026.jpg" %}

And, the student center plus that rainbow. The spots are water
on my lens, I think.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 029.jpg" %}

A controlled burn at CERA. The person is my manager there, Larissa Mottl.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 030.jpg" caption="Forest burning." %}

{% include fig.html src="Picture 031.jpg" %}

* * *

These next six are the progression of the buds on the maples
next to the loggia, as spring started. This is just as they were starting to
appear.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 034.jpg" %}

Now, starting to expand.
{: .run-in }

{% include fig.html src="Picture 037.jpg" %}

A little more,
{: .run-in }

{% include fig.html src="Picture 038.jpg" %}

more,
{: .run-in }

{% include fig.html src="Picture 039.jpg" %}

almost there,
{: .run-in }

{% include fig.html src="Picture 041.jpg" %}

and there: the maple has accomplished spring.
{: .run-in }

* * *

{% include fig.html src="Picture 042.jpg" %}

Me, Jay, Eric, and Ben, respectively.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 043.jpg" %}

This was of questionable legality, so I will say no more about
it.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 044.jpg" %}

I didn’t know we had Jack-in-the-pulpits on campus, but
we do. This was near where we played some krokay.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 059.jpg" caption="Nicole and Dan survey the
difficult pavilion center wicket." %}

{% include fig.html src="Picture 061.jpg" caption="A squirrel surveys my ball
(green, top right)." %}

{% include fig.html src="Picture 062.jpg" %}

There are some really nice trees here. This one smelled
great.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 063.jpg" %}

On the way home, Mom and I stopped at the Machine Shed.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 068.jpg" %}

We saw a truck that had tipped. It was pretty cool.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 071.jpg" %}

Here’s a train that I raced. I won, but then I had to
turn, and then I took a picture. It was by where I found a geocache.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 073.jpg" %}

I didn’t know there was this. I found it while I was
lost all over town after geocaching.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 074.jpg" %}

We had an interesting day yesterday. A bird fell out of the
sky in front of Dad’s truck as he wa driving. He stopped and it stayed
still long enough that he could actually pick it up. Then he stuck it in the
cage with our new rabbit. (Micah found the rabbit somewhere before I got back.
It’s a domestic rabbit, but after trying, he couldn’t figure out
whose it was.)

{% include fig.html src="Picture 076.jpg" caption="“It’s worth two in the bush.”" %}

{% include fig.html src="Picture 077.jpg" %}

Then, our cat brought in a ground squirrel, unharmed. Dad
caught it, and we leashed it and took it for a walk. It didn’t like that.
Then we let it go.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 078.jpg" %}

* * * 

Micah and I went frogging last night. I caught this one.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 080.jpg" %}

Then I flung him back into the pond.

{% include fig.html src="Picture 083.jpg" %} 

The end.  
