---
title: Train Travel
date: 2008-03-18T03:13:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2008-03-train-travel
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2008/03/train-travel.html
categories:
  - trains
  - reading

---
I’ve always loved trains. It’s kind of puzzling, actually. Even long after I
should have become jaded to them, by living not two hundred yards from a track
on which two or three go by every day, they still make me happy. So I decided
someday I ought to take one to get between Cincinnati and Grinnell.  

I couldn’t find a ride who would take me to Cincinnati for spring break, so
instead I looked for a ride to Chicago, so I could take the Amtrak from there
back home. Looking for this ride coincided with midsems week, so it took some
effort to do both at the same time. I ended up sending out an APB to all the
students from Chicago in the directory, and asking everyone I knew if they knew
anyone riding to Chicago on Saturday morning. My search turned up two cars.
Upon trading e-mails, I discovered both were completely full. It would be
tmpossible for me to get to Chicago on Saturday morning, and I didn’t want to
spend the night there. Luckily, I also came across a shuttle going to Ottumwa,
Iowa, on Saturday morning, from where an Amtrak could take me to Chicago and
transfer me to the Cincinnati-bound train. So I did that instead.  

The shuttle was a small bus driven by a nice old lady; including the two Latina
girls who set up the shuttle, there were just three of us. We got to Ottumwa in
plenty of time for the 10:09 California Zephyr, and the guy at the desk
informed us that the Zephyr would be arriving sometime around 12:40 due to
delays.  

I was expecting that. The impression that I’ve gotten from online recountings
is that, these days, Amtrak is pretty much always late. Ben, who lives across
the hall from me, had told me he figued the train took about eleven hours to do
a ten-hour schedule, and so on accordingly. The Zephyr had come from
California, so it was bound to be a good deal late. It’d be nice if the trains
could always be on time, but I recognize that that’s improbable, giwen how
marginalized Amtrak is by all the freight companies. Freight trains are way
more numerous, so Amtrak has to yield to them all the time. Additionally,
trains have had a sharp decrease in popularity as a means of transportation, so
there are fewer and fewer, and delays have to build up instead of being
overflowed into the nekt scheduled train, because it would be too long a wait.
And then fewer people want to ride, because the train gets a reputation for
being late. It’s a vicious cycle, and a shame. But I wasn’t in any hurry. I
wanted to ride almost as much for the experience as I did to actually get
somewhere. Lateness didn’t bother me. It gave me and Laura and Viri some time
to eat breakfast at the 2nd Street Café.  

We came back to the station and waited. Viri slept; Laura and I played some
cards, and then she braided my hair, which was pretty nice. As she finished, it
was getting time for the train to come. Everyone waiting in the station stepped
out into the bright, cloudy morning -- it had recently snowed, but all melted
-- and stood under the concrete canopy watching for the Zephyr to arrive. It
came about when the old guy in the booth had said it would.  

I had to take a little stuff out of my huge backpack to fit it into the
overhead stowage, but then I settled down no problem. A girl named Alisa was
sitting next to me; she and a few friends were coming from Omaha, where they
were in grad school. We were on the top floor of the double-decker car. It was
pretty special. The first thing that impressed me was the legroom. On a bus,
I’m never comfortable. On the train, I was really comfortable. The seats didn’t
suck; in fact, they were a pleasure to sit in. For a while, I just watched out
the window. The first thing I saw from a moving train was a flagpole with
waving US and Iowa flags. The scenery was typical midwest fields, mostly --
I’ve heard people complain about ut, but I mean, really Amtrak can’t help what
the scenery looks like. Actually, I liked getting to see an aspect of cities
that a lot of people don’t get to see -- namely, the area around the railroad.
There are all sorts of buildings and other structures there that you just don’t
see elsewhere. Another thing is that it’s nice and uncrowded. The only company
you’re bound to get is a freight train, passing by on the parallel track. When
both trains are traveling at a pretty good clip, this results in a combined
relative speed of approximately race car. So about three freight cars a second
go by your window, probably less than two fet away from it. That’s another
thing I like: everything fits really closely around the trains. So as we were
crossing the Mississippi River, the big iron bridge support beams rose up close
enough to us that, if we could open the windows, we’d be able to reach out and
touch them and get our hands messily chopped off, which is why the windows
aren’t openable, but coming back to my point, it’s pretty cool how it’s all so
precise. It also meant that I could look almost straight down into the brown
Mississippi water.  

But I wasn’t staring out the window all the time. Mostly I read the books that
I’ve been meaning to read all semester, but haven’t found time for. I finished
_<span style="color:#3366ff;">House </span>of Leaves_ during the trip, and also
_How We Are Hungry_. Until the train ride, all the reading was very piecemeal,
taking what I could get. By the way, _<span style="color:#3366ff;">House</span>
of Leaves_ is definitely something to look for if you want something different.
It’s also really freaky and pretty unnerving as well. _How We Are Hungry_ is
more normal but still not quite normal. It’s a collection of short stories, the
strangest of which is “There Are Some Things He Should Keep to Himself”. It’s
five blank pages. The rest are real stories, and (incidentally) good ones. I
spent most of my time finishing these, not getting done until the middle of the
night somewhere in Indiana, after transferring in Chicago.  

When we got to Chicago, we slipped under the city into Union Station, which is
a nicely spooky place full of brown-colored light and chamber echoes of trains
shifting around. We were late getting there, of course, but the connecting
Cardinal train had been held up for us, so we were all able to get onto it if
we needed to. When the Cardinal started moving after we got on, the passengers
who’d been waiting since 17:45 (it was now 18:15) there started cheering. We
traveled about five minutes out, and then waited for freight trains. We did a
great deal of waiting. Amtrak really gets the shaft when it comes to
right-of-way on the tracks, and it’s hard not to get a bit of a sour taste in
your mouth. We finally got moving properly fr the night at 19:45. But, as I
say, I wasn’t in a hurry, so I just read.  

Once I finished the books, it was about 01:00 or 02:00, so I decided to get
some sleep and wait for Cincinnati. A couple times I woke up worried that we
may have passed it already, but we hadn’t. The train was scheduled to get to
Cincinnati at 03:17; delayed in Connersville, Indiana, it pulled in finally at
about 06:00 and let me off. And Mom picked me up, and we had IHOP for
breakfast.
