---
title: The bowels of Kentucky
date: 2008-03-26T21:17:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2008-03-bowels-of-kentucky
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2008/03/bowels-of-kentucky.html
categories:
  - adventure
  - dad jokes

---
We took a vacation to Mammoth Caves. This account is lifted from my journal.

We got up early and had breakfast at Frisch’s. Then we drove. I slept in the
car. We had breakfast at “Aunt Bee’s Country Restaurant”. Then things got more
interesting.  

We found Diamond Cavern, and bought tickets for the next tour, which left in
about five minutes, so we had to hurry a little. Our tour guide was Jimmy; he
had a southern drawl, but despite that he didn’t live up to the stereotype and
was actually pretty smart. He showed us all sorts of pretty awesome formations
as we descended into the bowels of Kentucky. The floor was slick and we weren’t
allowed to touch anything, but it was still a pretty excellent tour. Everything
was brown. The air was moist and the temperature stayed normalized at 58°. The
owners had strung lights not just for lighting, but to really emphasize the
structures. One light hung behind a strip of “cave bacon”, which is a
translucent sheet of calcite with streaks of different colors to it. Other
lights stuck onto the ceiling next to stalactites bigger than our tour group
and collections of infinitely detailed filigree. Flowstones jutted out of the
walls and onto our isolated, concrete-paved path. Jimmy turned out the lights
for us and showed us what the cave was like when there was no electric lighting
-- they used candles, and it was pretty darn bland. We walked by a now-defunct
altar made out of broken-off stalactites and stalagmites and such (salvaged
after people from the area’s rivaling caves had broken them off). The trail was
sometimes cramped and constricted, and sometimes huge and open. Things you’d
never expect hung from the ceiling. In fact, there were three structures --
dripstones, I think Jimmy called them -- that geologists say cannot grow above
one another, and they were all stacked right on top of each other. “What
happens in the cave stays in the cave,” he said.  

Eventually, past all the frozen waterfalls and illogical rock forms, we hit the
end of the line, and turned around. At the time I was a bit unsatisfied, but
now I realize -- there’s not much else I could ask rocks to do for me. It’s a
pretty special cave all-around.  

I bought some magnetic hematite rocks at the gift shop, and we found a hotel:
the Mammoth Cave Hotel, located I think in the middle of Mammoth Cave National
Park. On entering the room, I found a sheet of paper detailing a walking trail
next to the hotel, so I suggested it. Only Dad and I went; Mom and Micah stayed
in the hotel instead and watched _Family Guy_. We drive two hundred miles and
they stay inside not a hundred feet from the edge of what Dad and I think may
be a real old-growth forest, at the onset of spring. It boggles the mind.  

The first thing Dad and I did was get good and lost, because that’s the only
way to have a proper hike. This we did by forsaking the trail and skipping down
a scattering of boulders slicked down a steep hillside until we found a brand
new trail. We took that one past a few pretty capacious sinkholes. One was
probably fifteen feet deep. I think they all drain to a series of caves below,
or something. I was barefoot, and the sharp gravel woke up nerves that had been
hibernating all winter. We found a little out-of-order cottage, and then picked
one of two trails at random at a forking, heading to the Echo River Spring. The
forest was pine and cedar, Dad guesses, and really wide and spacious. I could
feel its health, even though trees aren’t budding yet.  

The Echo River is green and wells up from a spring at the bottom of a deep,
green pool. The pool sloshes ever so slowly and silently and we couldn’t figure
out why at all. There are dead trees growing in the middle of it. Why? We
approached it from two different angles but neither offered answers.  

We took a trail that promised to take us to the <span
class="small-caps">Campground</span>. It ascended the hill we’d descended,
through a series of switchback and oxbows. We saw some standoffish deer.
“They’re Ohio deer,” Dad said. “They’ve got an O on the license tag.” At the
top of the hill, the trail diverged with no clues, both ways leading off into
scenic nowheres. We picked the one that seemed right; it petered out, and we
found another one nearby. That one took us through a huge bowl where no roads
came, and not even any road noise. Beautiful -- but when you’re trying to find
civilization again, unnerving. Daylight was fading fast. We kept following the
trail, and it led us up a hillside to some lights that proved to be our hotel.
Mom and Micah were both inside watching the Griffins evade Y2K.  

We spent the rest of the night playing a long, distracted game of Scrabble.
Then it was TV until bedtime. My feet are still tingling.

[I haven’t written this part in my journal yet, so this is all on the fly.]  

We woke up today and packed up our stuff into the truck. We walked to breakfast
in the hotel’s restaurant, and from there we walked across a bridge to the
Visitors’ Center. I was taken aback -- it was teeming. We found the information
desk and the guy told us that the 4-hour tour of Mammoth Cave was sold out
until sometime in April, and the longest tour still available for today was the
2-hour New Entrance tour. So we bought tickets for that at noon, and kind of
waited around until then. I read a few books in the bookstore part. Mom did
crossstitch in the truck, and Dad sat on a bench outside enjoying the fresh
air. I think Micah kind of wandered. The tour bus smelled of urine.  

This tour group was 119 people, said the tour guide. As such, it wasn’t as
personal as the Diamond Cavern one. We got into a line, and all descended one
after another down a steep and cramped stainless steel staircase into a shaft
about a hundred feet deep. The staircase spiraled around perplexingly, so that
we were frequently walking above or below another section of the line. Water
trickled through the ground into our giant hole, and through all the dark
cavities on its sides. There were stalactites and stalagmites, but not as
numerous as they were in Diamond Cavern. This cave had an altogether different
character. Or rather, several different characters. After we came out of the
shaft, we kept descending through other passages until we came to a huge
auditorium -- wooden benches set in the rock floor, fifteen-foot rock ceiling.
The tour guides gave a little presentation there, showing us the total darkness
like Jimmy had, and then we all got up and kept moving. The next section was a
dry, open one with no stalactites or anything, a section that had stopped
growing. Here, huge rocks balanced precariously over us. There was more
maneuvering room in general. One chamber had a big, flat ceiling. The tour
guide answered questions from some people there, about mummies found in the
cave, and things like that. And we kept walking through the huge, dark,
light-brown chambers. Rock tumbles stretched out below us into black depths,
and the ceiling was a jumble too, which was different from any other ceiling
I’ve been under before. From time to time we saw things that people had left
there. One pile of rocks had an old lantern on it.  

Finally, we came to the last chamber we would visit, another one full of
structures. There was the Frozen Niagara, thirty-foot flowstone. There was a
ceiling that consisted entirely of glistening stalactites. There was a pillar
in progress that, when it comes together sometime in the next few millennia,
will be about fifty feet high probably. I enjoyed it all. I breathed the cool
damp cave air. Then, abruptly, I found that the trail had led me back out to
the bright outdoors. So I waited for the rest of the family, and we got on the
buses and rode back to the Visitors’ Center.

Pictures to follow sometime.
