---
title: Idea Man
date: 2008-07-28T05:50:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2008-07-idea-man
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2008/07/idea-man.html
categories:
  - land skills
  - deep thoughts

---
*Note: Greatly edited in 2017 to remove details, some personal, most just
pointless and boring. Also, I was very naive.*
{: .prefatory }

[...] Now, on to my main topic, here. Since I got back from camp, I’ve been more
interested in honing my primitive skills. I think camp acted as a catalyst in
that respect. It got me to think, “I could live outside.” So now my next step
is figuring out the skills I need in order to do that. To that end, I’m going
to seriously start beefing up my outdoor knowledge. I’ll be reading books about
edible plants and shelter and trapping and such, possibly finding back episodes
of *Survivorman*, and trying to find someone more skilled who can mentor me on
these things. Of course, all of this is just book learning if I don’t put it
into practice, so I’ll also be spending a lot of time outside, finding these
plants that I read about, constructing lean-tos, trying to train information
out of animal tracks, and whatever else I need to do. I expect I’ll spend many
nights outside, especially once it gets a little cooler out. (However, on
several occasions, the house has been hotter than the outdoors, so I don’t
really need to wait much.) Presumably, with the practice I put in and the
learning I find, I’ll be pretty proficient within not too long. I’m going to
set goals for myself; the first one is to have killed and eaten my own small
game by the end of the school year next year. I hope to have that one completed
well ahead of schedule, so I can keep going pretty quick. After a long time of
talking primitivist talk, I’m starting to put my words into action.  

What will this lead to? My hope is that I’ll be good enough within a year, or
at most two, to start living outside full-time. I don’t pretend I’ll have
mastered everything within that timespan, but I should be able to survive. Once
I accomplish that, I’ll see what the college thinks about it if I live outside
instead of in a dorm. You laugh, but I have to get good somehow, and it’s not
going to be through thinking about the outdoors while sitting on a dorm bed. I
have no idea what Housing’s reaction would be to such a proposal, though I was
chatting with Ilan ([memory
jog]({% post_url 2007-08-25-absolutely-fantastic %})) and
he said that they would “definitely” let me do it senior year. I want to start
junior year, and hone everything down. Then, for senior year, I’ll see if I can
get a group of other people who’d like to come out and try it too. That would
make the experience at least twice as awesome, assuming some people actually
decided to do it. If I name this endeavor, I’m thinking of GO, for Grinnell
Outside. I have yet to come up with a location to stay, but there are a few
parks. I’d have to get the permission of the park board.  

To you, I probably sound a bit crazy. That’s all right with me, because I know
I’m going to seem crazy to a lot of people when I embark on this plan. But, if
I become knowledgeable and experienced enough, why not? If I don’t, my skills
will either never develop, or atrophy. Now here comes the fun part of this
entry where I look even crazier. If I get a GO contingent with me, they would
make great people to band together with if this Jason Godesky happens to be
right.  

Yeah, I’m bringing back that old name. Now, I’ve gotten a little more
discerning since I first read his Theses, and I’ve gotten more well-read. In
fact, I read one of his major sources that he often cut and pasted from, Jared
Diamond’s *Collapse.* So, until I read his ideas again with a more critical eye
than my reckless primito-optimism allowed me last time, I don’t really know
what I think are the odds of civilization collapsing. Jared Diamond thinks
we’ll probably pull through. But if the opposite is true, the handwriting
certainly does seem to be on the wall. Our economy, basically, is slowing down.
The sub-prime mortgage bubble already burst; now major banking corporations are
starting to run into definite trouble, viz. Bear Stearns, Fannie Mae, and
Freddie Mac. The government’s response seems to be much as Godesky predicted.
The price of food has started to rise in an attention-getting way, and so has
the price of gas. Parallel to that, the American dollar has been getting slowly
more and more worthless. This happened once before at the beginning of the
Depression, but at that point there was still plenty of oil left, all of it
easy for the taking. We’re now very much getting into Peak Oil. The Depression
era also didn’t have to contend with climate change wiping out the occasional
city and making crops harder to grow. These things already happening are
another contributor to my determination to learn soon and quickly. Civilization
may figure out a way to keep going, though it’ll have to collaborate better
with the planet in order to stay in business much longer (one of the central
findings of *Collapse*). Or, it might implode. Whatever happens, I plan to be
ready for it. And maybe even have a group of friends ready with me.
