---
title: Nice day declared
date: 2008-04-05T23:03:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2008-04-nice-day-declared
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2008/04/nice-day-declared.html
categories:
  - krokay
  - photos
  - adventure

---
First thing is: I had so many pictures from the cave trip, I realized putting
them on the blog would be impractical. So, [here’s a
video.](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UJUsi4lCdHs)

Today I pulled out my shorts for the first time in several months. I had lunch,
and then I played some krokay. Turned out, today was the perfect day for it.
Even though it seemed like I was getting a lot of cancellations due to
workload, four of us still managed to show up between Noyce and the Forum to
take in the first really nice spring day. I had gone scouting yesterday for
places to play, and decided there looked like a good place. As soon as I saw it
by daylight, I knew it was perfect. I started the course at the higher end of
the area, beneath some pines. From there, I dropped it down two walls, one
short and one tall. It took a brief detour around some trees and a little
shrine to Ganesha, and then came into a picturesque brick-laid pavilion (the
center wicket was wedged into cracks between the bricks). The turn wickets were
directly in front of a devilishly troublesome pit. Just to keep people
guessing, I put the first inbound wicket in a completely obstacle-free area of
flat grass. Thence back down to the pavilion, and finally back up two sloping
tiers of a terrace in order to get back up the walls to the starting point.

Man, we just had tons of fun. It was so much nicer today than the winter games
were, since we had no snow to contend with. The course lent itself to
especially cutthroat playing, with lots of interaction. The other three guys
were stuck at the turn wickets for probably ten turns apiece, knocking each
other into the pit and all over the place. Having Seth along makes any game
instantly a bit more irrational, unpredictable, and hazardous. Even though I
got away from the turn wickets far ahead of everyone else, they closed in on me
pretty quickly, thanks to a wrong turn I took. I still managed to become poison
well away from the others, and took Seth out directly. But in the time it took
me to do that, James got out of my grasp and too far toward poison to stop, so
I focused on Dan instead. After some uphill-downhill dancing, in which I had to
be careful to avoid the wicket placed near the edge of the wall, I finally
managed to take him out as well. By this time, James was poison, making today
our first multiple-poison game of the year. Neither of us got too close to the
other. We both planned our shots to end up far off in case we missed. We both
hid for a couple turns around a wooden shelter some people had put up over
Ganesha while we were playing. Eventually, one of James’s shots left him too
close to me, and I eliminated him to claim the win. 

Wow. What an absolutely excellent course. It’ll be just spectacular with a full
complement of six people. Imagine all the interaction, the multiple poisons! I
can’t wait. At the same time, though, I plan to get off campus sometime too,
for a forest game.


* * *


A few days ago, I got an email to the effect that there was a spot open in the
kayaking course. Since I have a lot of free time on Thursdays, I biked right on
over to it. So now I’m learning to kayak. I’m beginning to have a lot more fun
with my life. Dave Zeiss (who’s in charge of the GOOP trip) taught it in the
pool. We spent the first lesson learning how to recover from flipping over,
which is actually not very hard, and learning the basic paddle strokes. I
wonder what we’re going to do with the rest of the semester, since we learned
so much in one lesson. Incidentally, as we were kayaking we saw that it was
snowing. When we got out, there was somewhere between a half and a whole inch
on the ground. That was two days ago. And now it’s nice. I overheard someone
talking about Iowa’s “schizo weather” today; sums it up excellently.
