---
title: Perspekxxtive
date: 2008-09-20T18:34:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2008-09-perspekxxtive
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2008/09/perspekxxtive.html
categories:
  - primitivism
  - deep thoughts
  - technology

---
I hate to turn this blog into an “all talking about primitivism, all the time”
blog. It’s not, really, but something happened yesterday that made me think
about it differently. I was hanging out with my friend Ben in the room of two
of his friends. I got to talking with this one guy about primitivism. The thing
was, when I was talking my point of view, I couldn’t seem to come up with many
arguments to go against him. After I came back to my dorm I realized that this
wasn’t just because I tend to freeze a little bit while talking, needing more
time than some people to collect my thoughts, but also because when I was
talking with him, I had to reconsider the premises I already considered
obvious. This guy is a singularitarian -- someone who believes that in not too
long, the curve of technological growth, already curving upward in exponential
growth, will reach a “singularity”, where the growth is close enough to a
vertical that it will effectively be infinite and we can do anything.[^1]
Having loved nature all my life, I had to really adjust my thinking before I
could say anything that would make sense to someone who thinks the measure of
mankind’s progress is the degree to which it controls its environment
(controlling its environment is inescapably a euphemism for destroying nature).
And I had to really adjust when I heard him say that “any species that’s
worthwhile would survive without our help anyhow.” (To which I replied, “If I
shoot you with a gun, it must mean you weren’t worthwhile enough to survive,
right?” -- And he said that what we’re doing to animals is totally different, I
guess on the basis of the fact that we aren’t doing it literally with guns.
Actually we are, at slaughterhouses with special slaughtering guns, but that’s
beside the point, which is that he’s completely wrong.) That’s when I realized
that I need to write something that deals with primitivism specifically geared
toward someone who would dismiss it out-of-hand and can’t see how it might not
be ridiculous. Because that’s the kind of person that a whole lot of people in
the world are. Quite possibly some of the people reading this.  

So, the first question is: What do you gain from going back to a primitive way
of life?  This question is unnecessary except in our upper-crust part of
society. The vast majority of people in the world are extremely poor and would,
when viewed even from our upper-crust perspective, have been better off if
civilization hadn’t arisen. But in America, it takes a little examining to
convince people that hunting and gathering wouldn’t be the same as eternal
misery in squalor. The first thing I’d like to point out is that in bushmen
societies of Africa -- these are societies in the desert, where life is pretty
difficult -- the members only need to work about two or three hours a day on
average in order to find their subsistence. Their neighbors who have been
convinced to grow food instead are effectively enslaved to their farms, because
the farms take so much work. After I said this, the singularitarian just said,
“What do they do with all that extra time?” When I told him that they bond with
each other and generally have a great time together, he said he’d rather be
working, so he could make better machines, because he views that as play, not
work. I doubt he’d say the same in practice. He’d be among the innumerable who
wish they could spend more time with their family, especially their kids
(though he seems like he might not be the having-kids type), if only they
didn’t have to do so much work.  

Here’s another question. He talked about working every day so that he could
make something that’s better than it was yesterday. You couldn’t do that living
in the jungle, could you? It’s a pretty romantic notion: continual improvement
through smarter machines. But who defined machines as the meter of “better”?
From my perspective, continual improvement would be learning each day to
cooperate better with nature so that nature and I can both live more
comfortably. Eventually, I’d get to a point where I wouldn’t improve much
anymore -- but the difference between me and him is that I’d then be satisfied
that I’d at last gotten to where I need to be, and didn’t need to keep trying
to improve, whereas he would never be satisfied and is always working toward a
continually receding goal.  

Well what about my hypocrisy? Obviously I’m not sincere, since I haven’t
already gone out and started living in “the jungle” (for some reason he always
called it that, even though I’d be living in North America and it’d be called a
forest), right? And likewise, Derrick Jensen can’t possibly think his arguments
are valid, because he hasn’t abandoned civilization yet -- in fact, he’s used
civilization to distribute the books he writes.  

Well, no, because I was raised in civilization and never got hands-on training
with any of the techniques I need to know in order to live off the land. I
can’t yet go back into the wild and survive, probably. Once I can, I still
won’t for a while, because for one thing, a society of one is depressing and
vulnerable, and I’d need to find some people who would come with me. I’m most
likely to find those people here, or through the internet. Civilization has
kept people with ideas like these from growing up together, but fortunately we
can now use civilization in order to get back together. And as for writing
books, Derrick Jensen has done more good for the natural world by raising
awareness about primitivism through his books than he would have if he had just
gone off and started living in the redwood forest. As long as civilization is
still around, it helps if you can work against it, not just leave it. It helps
you (by increasing the health of the landbase you’re living on) and it helps
the rest of the world.  


* * *


So, thanks for bearing with me. If you have any questions, just ask them: that
can only make this post more valuable.

[^1]: Singularity is a pretty idiotic doctrine, as far as I’ve been able to
    see. It ignores the fact that *every* other curve that has had exponential
    growth has slowed down to become a [logistic growth
    curve](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logistic_function).  (Actually, I just
    read that the main proponent of it knows technological growth will become
    logistic, but has decided it’s going to happen too far in the future to matter
    to him.) And the reason that we’re going to be able to disobey this law is
    that, as the guy in the dorm said, “We’re smarter.” He went on to mention
    several benchmarks of our smartness like the understanding of DNA and the
    making of computers, asking rhetorically if any other culture has understood
    those things, and acted like that proved our superiority and our capability of
    hitting a Singularity. But notice that any previous culture could have said
    that about cultures that didn’t have their technology (“Has *any* other culture
    been able to use a springy stick and some string to shoot a pointy stick so
    fast that an animal can’t run away from it?”) and any future culture that
    advances farther than us could say it about us (“Has *any* other culture been
    able to make all the molecules of an object become energy and then reconstitute
    again at a distant point?”) and argued just as successfully that their culture
    alone is fit to achieve singularity. So, no singularity.
