---
title: On harebrainedness
date: 2008-08-06T20:42:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2008-08-on-harebrainedness
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2008/08/on-harebrainedness.html
categories:
  - land skills
  - philosophy
  - language

---
This post serves to let you all know that I haven’t actually lost it.  

I decided I was going to start sleeping outside. Now, on the face of it, there
seem to be several things wrong with this decision. One: People have always
slept under some kind of shelter if they needed to, and I already have that
exact thing -- a house. Thus, I’m not really gaining a new primitive skill. I’m
just, you know, sleeping outside. Two: It’s kind of weird for the neighbors,
maybe. Three: Sleeping outside isn’t really a difficult skill to learn. In
fact, sleeping as a rule is pretty easy to do.  

Sleeping outside was more of a symbolic decision, arrived at on the spur of the
moment in a slight heat of idealism when I was writing in my journal. “Bring on
the primitive living skill books,” were the words I wrote; “starting tomorrow I
sleep outside.” Later, I realized that that decision was more a symbolic change
than anything. As such, if it’s raining, I’ll sleep inside. I might start
sleeping inside again after a while, but for now, I do like it. It’s nice, if
for nothing else then because I get some fresh air, and it’s also usually
cooler outside than inside at night.  

There are some credulous primitivists out there. I found a forum where they
hang out, www.rewild.info/conversations . Several of them there have used
homœopathic remedies, and one has mentioned that they have a homœopathic
doctor. They talk about rewilding language. Now, all languages can express a
copula (something is something else -- we use “is” for it, though other
languages just put the two things next to each other, like in Russian “Это
дверь” -- “That [is] a door”), and all languages have pronouns like you, me,
and him. But after Jason Godesky posted about “E-Primitive”, the supposed
primitive way of writing in English, a lot of them jumped on the bandwagon.
E-Primitive is actually based off of E-Prime, which is English with no forms of
“to be”, and was conceived by some physicists who fancied themselves
philosophers, if I recall correctly. The argument is that only those who feel
that they’re masters of the world can declare that one thing is equal to
another. Or, perhaps, that one thing is never “equal” to another, because
everything in the universe is in a state of flux. The rationales are pretty
abstracted. But it has an interesting ring to it -- rewilding the English
language! Becoming undomesticated even down to your thought patterns! And
expressing thoughts with minimal use of “to be” does give a measure of
improvement. Professor Savarese advises that you cut down on “to be” as much as
you can while writing something, because it makes thoughts longer and  less
direct. Nevertheless, he used it plenty in his book. The trick is not to use it
too much, and when you can, to keep concise by ditching it. See, I used it in
that sentence just back there. So, many of them have decided to get rid of the
copula in all instances. Others have taken the idea of E-Primitive even farther
and started raising the idea of eliminating pronouns -- I have no idea what the
reasoning is behind that. It sounds good, because it’s a new idea, and sounds
kind of deep. Eliminate pronouns, and call all things by their real names.
Pronouns are a convenience, though: they shorten sentences by giving you a way
around [saying the same noun every time you mention
it](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HevM-35hJUE). I get the feeling on that
board sometimes that, when Jason Godesky writes something, a lot of them don’t
even bother thinking about whether he might be right; they just accept that he
is. Of course, there are some others, I’m sure, who aren’t like that. I’d have
to say I belong to that camp. I’m not about to start using homœopathic remedies
(Head-On! Apply directly to the forehead! -- The reason they’re still allowed
to sell that stuff is that they never say what it’s supposed to do, and so the
FDA can’t say it doesn’t really do it). I’ll continue using “to be”, and Chuck
will most certainly always refer to Chuck with a pronoun. I’m going to learn
primitive skills, but I’m not going to devote my life to that and no other
pursuits. I’m going to look at stuff I read critically, even if it does come
from a primitivist source like Jason. Basically, I’m going to learn primitive
skills because I think it’ll be both fun and useful -- perhaps extremely useful
indeed.

P.S.! I made a [new snapping
video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iC7oRHiPlhM). A friend at Grinnell
introduced me to the band that made the song.
