---
title: The GKF
date: 2008-02-10T20:34:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2008-02-gkf
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2008/02/gkf.html
categories:
  - krokay

---

That’s the Grinnell Krokay Front. We’ve started playing regular games; we’ve
had one a week for the last three weeks. So far they’ve all been in South
Campus, playing over the tracks, but I hope to diversify soon. I just need to
find a way to get everyone to Krumm Preserve, where there’s a pond. But it’s
difficult, because none of us have cars. I still have yet to come up with a way
to move us. Yesterday was our third and most successful game. Five of us showed
up in all, most of us somewhat crazy, as we’d probably have to be: Nicole, Dan,
Seth, James, and me. Last week the railroad was a big problem, because there
wasn’t much snow, and if you got caught between the two rails, there was thus
no way to get under the ball for a scoop shot. This week was better, because
tere was plenty of snow, and no one got caught endlessly like that. Nicole and
I took the lead position from the get-go, crossing the rails while the others
entertainingly bogged down at the first right wicket (remember this handy
diagram? It’s from June).  

{% include fig.html src="allpurposetemp.png" %} 


Dan got out first, and started coming after me and Nicole, but we were pretty
far ahead. Meanwhile, Seth and James realized that they had no chance of
winning and that they had picked inadequate winter gear to wear, so they
forfeited and went inside to warm up. Now it was a three-person race, with
Nicole and me both at the 2nd left wicket -- Actually, I think “2nd outbound”
is a better name for it -- and Dan was somewhere around the first outbound. We
decided about then that we were going to forgo the poison portion of the game,
because, well, there were eight inches of snow, which would make it next to
impossible to actually hit anyone else without astounding luck. We could still
be playing now. The endgame came. I was still slightly behind Nicole: she was
between the two exit wickets, and I was before the first one. I planned to go
through, take extra shots from her, and win it. I hit her ball, and it went
through the last wicket, giving her the win. Gaarh! We wasted no time cleaning
up the set, and we warmed up in the lounge at her dorm. And then I carried the
set back to my dorm. So much fun.  

What else have I been doing? Eating ginger snaps. Learning the Dvorak keyboard
layout. Writing a little. I need to write more. I’ll be writing a lot these
next couple days, though, for various reasons. By the way, the Dvorak keyboard
looks like this:  

    ”,.PYFGCRL?+   
    AOEUIDHTNS-    
     ;QJKXBMWVZ  

It keeps the most common letters on the home row, and has other various
benefits. It was slow learning at first, but I’m getting a lot better. You can
see I still make wistakes, though.  

I love the Iowa winter, by the way. There’s been snow on the ground since about
November, as far as I can tell. In Ohio, there’ve been 50-degree days all over
the place, and very little snowfall. Iowa’s pretty good, then. A trite little
sentiment, but I don’t really have something deep to say about it -- I just
like the winter here, is all.
