---
title: What I Did
date: 2009-02-04T06:07:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2009-02-what-i-did
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2009/02/what-i-did.html
categories:
  - snow sculptures
  - photos

---

I’ve decided Saturdays are my days for doing something awesome, every week.
I’ve got several things queued. But this last Saturday’s was just excellent.

{% include fig.html src="A Capella 032.jpg" %}

I made a moai. Moai are better known as “those Easter Island heads”. To make
it, I used a huge pile that the snowplow had made, and whittled it into this
using a hatchet and a crappy plastic snow shovel I borrowed from Security. I
worked on it for a couple hours Friday night, six hours or so on Saturday, and
a little more on Sunday. I had forgotten since last year that snow sculpting is
some of the most physically draining work there is, so at the end of the day my
muscles and bones were telling me, “Damn, you must have really *accomplished*
something!” I love working really hard, because when I’m done, I can eat dinner
three times. But for now, I love it once in a while. Maybe I could be persuaded
to like it more often, but only for money or if I end up learning woodsman-type
skills from it. Okay, so now I’m going to give you a sense of the size of this
thing.

{% include fig.html src="A Capella 028.jpg" %}

That’s right. Eight feet tall, I’m guessing. Fear it.

{% include fig.html src="A Capella 036.jpg" %}

Since I’m putting up pictures, here’s one of my roommate.

{% include fig.html src="A Capella 037.jpg" %}

He’s halfway between having his hair parted on the left and having it parted on
the right. I had just discovered that he’s parted his hair on the left every
day of his life since first grade except once, and he decided to try it out
differently since we were discussing it. We were talking about combing because
I had just given my hair a thorough combing for the first time in… uh… (long,
awkward silence). I don’t know when I last combed my hair before today. I just
let it do whatever it’s going to do, usually. But I like to do something with
my hands while I’m reading, and I had a long reading today.

{% include fig.html src="A Capella.jpg" %} 

Maybe I’ll take a shot with a better background later, so you can see my hair
in all its glory. It’s sort of all over the place in this picture, but you’ll
notice it’s not tangled like it was before. This is taken by the roommate
pictured above. He’s a photographer for the college newspaper.

Next Saturday? I’m thinking either geocaching or bowdrill fire-making. I’ll
probably do the geocaching first, so I can find a fireboard and other pieces of
wood for the bowdrill. I’ll keep you posted.

Also, Grandma & Grandpa, I got the ginger snaps, and I’ve been enjoying them
for the last two days. Mmmmmmmmmm. I had forgotten how much I like coming back
to the dorm and being able to pick up a ginger snap whenever I want one.
