---
title: こんにちわ。
date: 2009-09-14T21:10:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2009-09-blog-post
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2009/09/blog-post.html
categories:
  - language

---
That says “Konnichiwa.” The reasoning behind this is discussed in ¶2 below
_herein_. 

Since the beginning of classes, I’ve had an empty hole in my schedule. It was
originally German, but as I said last week, I wanted a bit more variety, and
German would have been the fourth European language I could string a sentence
together in. So I tried to take an education course about second language
acquisition, which would have been fun, but I didn’t have the prerequisite they
wanted (intro to education). So I considered doing the language thing this year
instead of next, with Hindi in the school’s Alternative Language Study Option.
But it turned out that would be mostly self-taught, and intensive, and I
couldn’t audit it, and also I wasn’t especially enthusiastic about Hindi. So I
thought about Intro to Econ, but it wouldn’t fit my schedule like I wanted it
to, and I wasn’t enthusiastic about it either. Then I thought about something
I’d discovered the previous day while chatting with Walter (the guy from camp)
online. He’s a linguistics major too (and two other majors that I can never
remember), and he mentioned the JET program. This is a program wherein (I think
I’m getting all this right) the Japanese government pays to bring recent
college graduates to Japan from English-speaking countries, mainly the US, and
help their English teachers teach English to high-school and junior-high kids.
The Americans thus hired are paid ¥3,600,000, which sounds pretty impressive,
and not *too *much less impressive when you convert it to ~$40,000 USD. I’d
been thinking about it since I heard it mentioned, and I thought it sounded
like a good opportunity to go abroad. I’d talked with my advisor inlinguistics
about the remaining two years of my four-year plan, and she’d shown slight
incredulity that I wasn’t going abroad. She said it was something I really
ought to consider, perhaps for fall next year. That was before I discovered
JET. I do kind of regret not going abroad this year, but only *kind of*,
because I think I did have good reasons for not going abroad. They were: that I
think it’d be a more authentic abroad experience and I’d get a better feel for
the culture if I weren’t taking college classes while there; that I’m paying
for a Grinnell education, so I might as well get what I’m paying for here and
go abroad some other time; and that if I went abroad through Grinnell, I would
have to pay a Grinnell tuition even though doing it by some means of my own
could be a bunch cheaper. JET seems to get around all those problems by
requiring me to graduate before applying and by paying *me*. So, to get back to
where this paragraph was originally heading in its extremely roundabout way, I
filled my empty course slot with Intro to Japanese.

It’s an every-day class, and I added it about two weeks in, so I’ve had to make
up work, but I’m managing pretty well, I think. I’ve already learned all the
ひらがな (hiragana), though some of them come and go, and I’m pretty close to
knowing all the カタカナ (katakana). We haven’t started learning kanji yet, but
I’ve picked up a few here and there
(一、二、三、四、五、八、十、日本、本、円、and 人、which mean respectively 1,
2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 10, Japan, book, yen, and people). I can also pull together
simple sentences, like 「わたしのおかあさんは四十四さいです」 and
「このペンは八十五円です。」 And I’ve figured out how to type in Japanese,
which is pretty interesting and not required for the course as far as I know.
I’m going to look into finding more programs like JET, perhaps one that could
help me hone my Spanish too, but right now JET seems pretty sweet, especially
the getting-paid-a-decent-amount part. Although I haven’t researched it very
extensively. Even if I don’t go there, Japanese is still a pretty cool
language.

The other really cool thing that happened last week was that some people from
the archæology class went to Cahokia, myself included, to see the top
atlatlists in the world throw spears with atlatls. It was a pretty casual
event, with maybe forty people, and our professor was well known there. He used
to be a pretty good thrower, but this year his back isn’t letting him throw
well. It looks like it should be easy to throw a spear with an atlatl, but we
five students who threw were pretty sucky. We were usually lucky to just get
the spear into the foam somewhere near the target, while the old hands were
clustering one spear apiece, in groups of five, inside the 8-point zone
routinely. It was pretty special. We also toured Monks Mound, the largest
earthen mound worth of Mexico, which is right across the street from the museum
where the competitions were held. From it we could clearly see the Gateway
Arch, which I think is across the Mississippi River from there and several
miles away. Yes, it’s a big mound. The museum there was also one of the most
informative, best laid out, keenest, and least tacky museums I’ve visited,
although I don’t do a whole lot of museumgoing. They had some weirdly lifelike
plastic sculptures there, which (three of us who were together agreed) looked
very plastic at first, but after a while of staring seemed as though they’d
turn and go “Boo” any moment. When we students threw for the ISAC event
(International Standard Accuracy Contest), I shot a 17, and the next morning a
22\. To give some perspective, the highest score ever achieved so far is a 97.
The veterans were throwing well into the 80s that day.

There’s probably more stuff I could write about, but I’ve got no shortage of
work, so that’s all for now.
