---
title: '“(I Keep On) Forgettin’ to Write” — B. R. Cyrus'
date: 2009-08-30T22:36:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2009-08-i-keep-on-forgettin-to-write-b-r-cyrus
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2009/08/i-keep-on-forgettin-to-write-b-r-cyrus.html
categories:
  - Manito-wish
  - adventure
  - meat
  - college

---

No, you silly people. GOOP stands for Grinnell Outdoor Orientation Program.
You should remember this, because I did it before, just before I came to
college. I even blogged about it: Not [once]({% post_url
2007-08-25-absolutely-fantastic %}), but [twice]({% post_url
2007-08-27-part-deux %}). It’s outfitted partially through Manito-wish and held
in the same area where campers take trips. However, this time around GOOP, I
was leading it instead of participating in it. I co-led it with a girl from my
tutorial, Kate. We had five first-years: Willie, Leslie, Colleen, Jeff, and
Julia. Another thing we had is a great time. Everyone was great at paddling, so
we didn’t need to worry much about getting to our campsites on time. Instead,
we preoccupied ourselves with having fun. We played a lot of a game called
Contact, which is a word game with complicated but fun rules, and is played by
shouting. On our first day, we came upon a rope swing that someone had
generously hung out for us on Trout Lake. It hung from a tree that jutted out a
good ten feet over the water. By stepping way back onto the shore, we were able
to achieve some pretty mindblowing speeds, and I involuntarily busted out
falsetto yells of exhilaration. Julia got herself soaked trying to get off the
loop of rope.  Actually, we all got at least a little wet. But it was worth it.
We camped on the Trout River and made delightfully gross mac-’n’-cheese. 

The next day, we paddled downriver and then across lakes for about 13 miles,
finally stopping for the night on Island Lake and creating some pizza-like
monstrosities that tasted great because everything tastes great on trail. That
night, most of us stood on the shore of our campsite and looked out at the
stars, which aren’t as good as the stars at Crowduck, but aren’t too far
behind. Willie and Julia goodnaturedly made fun of each other, mainly Willie
making fun of Julia’s native Hawaii; Colleen and Kate lay on the sand and
talked; Jeff and Leslie and I contemplated skinny dipping, but decided it was
too cold and we should do it on Pallette Lake later on.

We got up the next morning and paddled up the Manitowish River. About halfway
up, we stopped at a portage take-out to have lunch. A family came down the
river and when their small boy sighted us, he shouted, “Land ho!!” Willie
called back to him, “You’re on a river. You can see land *all the time*.”
(But the boy didn’t hear it.) In proper canoeing technique, two people paddle
on opposite sides of the boat, and the sternsman steers (the two words are
related) using sweep strokes and J-strokes. In the family’s canoe, all three
people were paddling (makes the boat tippy, and crosses paddles); they paddled
on the same side, except when the middle-aged woman in the bow would steer by
switching sides of the boat. These are the kind of people we laugh at, though
not to their faces. They told us the river was pretty low, and that they’d thus
“been doing a lot of portaging.” Portaging is lifting the canoe over your head
and carrying it down a trail. What they had been doing was walking (or
wetfooting) the canoe. I laughed more inside. We did walk the canoes upstream,
and we got into camp a bit late, but it was a pretty great day. The main
problem was we didn’t get enough refried beans for our burritos.

On our last full day, we got up and paddled up the Manitowish some more until
we found Nixon Creek. We paddled down that and found the take-out. It’s made of
mud, which indents a couple inches when you step on it, but holds weight—except
in the Black Hole, about a three-foot circle where someone unsuspecting can
sink down to their hips. When I couldn’t get anyone to stand there, I
demonstrated it for them, just for fun. There would be clean lakes later, where
I could rinse off. After a few portages, the first one long and the others
shorter, we plunked down and camped on Pallette Lake. It started raining
lightly, just enough to be ominous. We made spaghetti and then, since we’d been
paddling a lot, we had a backrub party. I’m told I’m good at backrubs. It was
raining proper by then, so nobody wanted to skinny dip, so we didn’t, and it
was disappointing. Instead, we all pretty much went right to sleep.

We woke up cold the next day and paddled cold down Stevenson Creek. On the plus
side, the normally shallow Stevenson had been deepened by the rain, and we
didn’t have to walk our canoes nearly as much. Although when we did, the water
was rather darn cold. We pulled out back where we started at Trout Lake at
10:30. Unfortunately, our pick-up wasn’t until 1:30, and it was still raining
and really cold. After washing Stevenson off us, we set up a tarp and huddled
under it (I understand there was some skinny dipping that I wasn’t aware of,
while Kate and I were setting up the tarp). And then we sat and ate and
shivered, and later tossed a frisbee, until the bus came. So that was it for
the trip. Now you know not only what GOOP stands for, but what it means.

After a pause of five days in which I didn’t have much at all to do, while the
first-years got oriented, classes started. I think it’s going to be a great
semester. I’m in Archaeology of North America; the professor is John Whittaker,
whom I knapped with on Fridays last year. He came into the class carrying a
spear, and later he invited us all to come with him to Cahokia on the 12th for
a gathering of eccentric archaeologists who like to throw spears with <a
href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Atlatl">atlatls</a> and do other primitive
things. I’ll be going. I’m also in Theories of Culture, which is an anthro
class taught by my linguistics concentration advisor, Brigittine French. And
I’m in stats, which shouldn’t be too bad. Lastly I’m in German, but I’ve
suddenly become less enthusiastic about learning yet another Indo-European
language (I’ve already studied English, Russian, Spanish, and Esperanto).
However, I can’t take Chinese (it’s Sino-Tibetan) this year, because it
conflicts with Archaeology. So I’m going to see if there’s anything else
interesting from my 4-year plan that I can replace German with[^1], and then
hopefully I’ll be able to take Chinese next year. And perhaps even learn a bit
of a language in an ExCo. That’s the “Experimental College”, which consists of
classes taught informally by students and other people who want to teach
something but aren’t professionals. I might try teaching Esperanto, actually.
It could be fun. And it’s a language that you could actually get a grasp on
without professional or intensive instruction.

As for EcoHouse matters. Well, we’ve gotten off to a good start. We all get
along pretty well together. Rooming with Elissa has proved unproblematic so
far. On Thursday, a group of us walked down to the farmers’ market in town and
bought lots of fruits and vegetables and bread and such. It turns out we
probably could have gone without buying the fruits and vegetables, because the
two campus gardens—one behind EcoHouse and one across campus—are producing like
mad right now. In the kitchen, as I write, we have a zucchini that’s about two
feet long and fat. There’s also a giant rutabaga in the fridge that I hope to
use in pasties sometime soon. I think I’ll make a small test batch, and then
scale them up to make a meal for everyone who wants one. EcoHouse is anywhere
from 50 to 70 percent vegetarian, depending on how delicious, local, and humane
the meat is that’s being offered. Regardless, I’ve found myself eating less
meat, because meals cooked for everyone have to be vegetarian. I’ve made
hamburgers for myself with some probably non-local, factory-farmed meat I
bought at the local grocery on Thursday. I bought it impulsively, because I had
bread and didn’t know what besides hamburger I’d put between it, and I’d also
never shopped for just myself before, so I didn’t know how my creativity might
work out in making food out of whatever I had. I regret buying that beef, but
happily, I’ve learned of a place in town where you can buy local beef and
chicken. So once I use this up, I’ll get my meats from there. And there will be
less or no stigma associated with my eating meat then. As it is, when I’ve been
making my factory-beef burgers, I’ve felt almost like a barbarian intruding on
a peaceful group of villagers. Funny how these things can depend on
context—back at home, my making myself a burger was encouraged. I have no
intention of going vegetarian. But I do like the idea of knowing where my meat
comes from.

Last night, we had a party here. There was alcohol involved, but I didn’t drink
in any meaningful amount (I drank a fifth… of a cup of some Iowan wine that
Nathan brought). I discovered, though, that parties can be fun even sober, and
a good place to meet people. I met, or got better acquainted with, Adam, Aniko,
Kane, Latona, Anne-Marie, Evan, and Jumi, all of whom I’ve never mentioned here
before, so don’t worry about them unless they crop up later. But perhaps I’ll
start going to parties this semester. My criterion for a good party is whether
you can actually talk to someone there without having to shout over the music.
Last night I had to shout sometimes, but I was also able to get away from it in
a different area of the house. Overall I’m glad I stayed around.

Today I did some reading and explored along the railroad tracks with Madeline
and met with EcoHouse and then with Bob’s employees. In a little while I’m
going to play Go. I like the way this semester is looking.

[^1]: Another reason I’d like to find a class other than German is that the
    textbook bundle for it costs $255 and is nonreturnable.


