---
title: Ideas
date: 2009-10-22T21:04:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2009-10-ideas
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2009/10/ideas.html
categories:
  - Halloween

---

I haven’t done anything for Halloween the last couple years, but this year I
really want to. I came up with some ideas last year, but I don’t think I wrote
them down, which is a shame because I think I remember them being good.
Nevertheless, I’ve come up with some ideas this year that I think are also
good.

\#1: Weird Al.

{% include fig.html absolute=true
src="http://hotbeans.files.wordpress.com/2008/04/mustache-_0003_weird-al-yankovic.jpg"
%}

It would give me a great excuse to buy the most flagrant Hawaiian shirt I could
find. But I would have to figure out some way to curl my hair, and also I’d
probably want to buy big goofy glasses for the classic, pre-LASIK Weird Al
look.

\#2: Waldo.

{% include fig.html absolute=true
src="http://chud.com/articles/content_images/173/waldo.jpg" %}

If I’m as thorough as this guy, Waldo could be a pretty expensive costume. But
I could also do the more basic Waldo ensemble, which is just the jeans, shirt,
hat, cane, and glasses. I’d have to do some scrounging in thrift stores to find
the perfect shirt. Well, Dad does have a sweater with red and white stripes,
but at about bellybutton level, they switch from two inches thick to a quarter
inch thick. So maybe I could use that, but I’d have to hike up my pants a lot.

\#3: Frank Zappa.

{% include fig.html absolute=true
src="http://www.lyricsystem.com/img/posters/039_32264.jpg" %}

This would be tons of fun and pretty ridiculous. I actually have some tight
’70s-style pants that I inherited from Dad’s Navy days. Heck, there are some
guitars in Bob’s that people have just left there -- if I wanted to carry one
of those around, I probably could, but it might be more effort than I’d want to
take.

\#4: Savador Dalí.

{% include fig.html absolute=true
src="http://www.esquire.com/cm/esquire/images/1971-salvador-dali-lg-70004381.jpg"
%}

Man, I could just go all-out on this one. Clearly, the mustache is the
important part, but I could also wear a suit (preferably in purple, or at least
with a purple tie) and a cape and rings and all sorts of crazy stuff. My
biggest concern is what I’d use for the mustache. I could probably fashion one
out of all the hair I shed, although that might be kind of weird. I guess I
would just hope no one asked what it was made of.

I’ll also have to plan out my Halloween night to optimally take advantage of
being dressed up as one of these people. I couldn’t just sit in my room as
Salvador Dalí. I’ll ask around about what festivities there are.

Other ideas that I’ve been coming up with are unrelated to Halloween. They have
to do with NaNoWriMo, which is short for National Novel Writing Month. The idea
behind this is that there are lots of people who dream someday of writing a
novel, but most of them never really take the time to actually compose it. So
NaNoWriMo is a challenge to all aspiring writers: write a 50,000-word story
within the space of the month of November. It’s famously a huge amount of
writing and a torturous month, and in order to come up with the requisit number
of words, you pretty much have to sacrifice editing; this is encouraged,
because the goal is to actually write, and to worry later about making it into
something that a human could stand to read. You can do it self-governed, and
probably lots of people do; however, at this college there’s a support group,
of sorts, for people who are planning to write a NaNo this November, and I’m
going to go to its meetings, or at least some of them, on the theory that being
able to commiserate and compare with others’ experiences will help me keep on
pace throughout the month. 50,000 words divided by 30 days works out to 1,667
words per day, which is about equivalent to a six-page paper, except that it’ll
never be graded and it need not be coherent or factually accurate, so I’m sure
it’ll go by at a much quicker speed than my usual rate of one academic page per
hour, especially once I get into a stride. So far, I have one plotline that I
could probably hang a story on, although it needs more work; one short story
that I’ve written (not hugely well) before and could conceivably turn into a
novel, but probably won’t because it seems to be better short; and another
vague idea that I haven’t plotted out at all yet, but that I’ve thought about a
little before. They involve, respectively: a pair of protagonists who escape
their unsatisfying lives into the wilderness; a guy who wastes his life away,
as told from the point of view of his subconscious that desperately wants him
not to; and someone who has the power to make his/her imagination becomes
reality, but only for people who believe he/she can do it. I’ll offer more
updates as I get into the writing, although the amount of time involved may
mean that I won’t update the blog much that month.

I’ve been at home, which has been nice; We’ve had some pretty good home meals,
like fried green tomatoes by Dad and chili dogs with potatoes by Karl. Micah’s
been pretty much perpetually angry, but Mom and Dad and I had a joint task
force last night where we talked about a new goal of cooperation and
univocality to try and get Micah to calm down. I’ve been working on Solvejg,
although I feel for the moment as though I’m netted in an inescapable layer of
computational bureaucracy, because I can’t get my fonts to work just like they
should. I’ll figure it out eventually. I did for Newt. I’ve also been studying
Japanese, and the more I learn about its writing system, the more thoroughly
absurd I find it. Here’s an excerpt from Wikipedia that details the worst of
it:

> In a number of cases, multiple kanji were assigned to cover a single Japanese
> word. Typically when this occurs, the different kanji refer to specific
> shades of meaning. For instance, the word なおす, *naosu*, when written 治す,
> means “to heal an illness or sickness”. When written 直す it means “to fix or
> correct something”. Sometimes the distinction is very clear, although not
> always. Differences of opinion among reference works is not uncommon; one
> dictionary may say the kanji are equivalent, while another dictionary may
> draw distinctions of use. As a result, native speakers of the language may
> have trouble knowing which kanji to use and resort to personal preference or
> by writing the word in [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hiragana"](hiragana).
> This latter strategy is frequently employed with more complex cases such as
> もと *moto*, which has at least five different kanji: 元, 基, 本, 下 and 素,
> three of which have only very subtle differences.

So, that’s what I’ve been doing lately. Also, this is my 200th entry. How about
that?
