---
title: A walk in the park • Rendezvous • Misc.
date: 2009-02-16T21:36:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2009-02-walk-in-park-rendezvous-misc
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2009/02/walk-in-park-rendezvous-misc.html
categories:
  - adventure
  - prairie
  - snow
  - climbing

---
I do like my Saturdays. Here’s what happened on the 7th, taken from my journal.  

I got up about 1130 and had lunch. I was going to invite [my friend] to come
along geocaching, but I couldn’t find her. It’s just as well -- I’m probably
the only person on campus crazy enough to go through everything I did today. I
got some water and such ready, and then around 1330 I took off for Jacob Krumm
Preserve.  

The biking went pretty smooth until I turned onto the gravel road -- then I
discovered that “gravel” was really a euphemism for “mud covered with gravel”.
But, I found enough purchase on the roadway to get to the preserve. Pretty
uneventful. The roads were so wet because it’s been melting the last few days,
in _volume_. The gravel road at points had a _creek_ running alongside it in
the drainage ditch.  

I entered Jacob Krumm Preserve, and found the trail. The first cache I looked
for was supposed to be on a grassy hill scattered with tiny dead-looking trees,
but I searched under every tussock and found nothing. So I moved on to the next
one.  

It was easy to find when I got close: just a peanut butter jar in a log. I
noted that it was getting wet on the ground as I moved on. I came across a
field with a huge dirt mound and a wooden tower in it, with the trail bypassing
it to the left, and a “fire lane” trail going approximately to the tower. I
took the trail, but then it turned out to be a stream -- no kidding, a real
stream with a real current. I slorshed across some slushy ice to the field I’d
left, and quickly found the geocache at a post of the tower I’d seen. There
were kids playing on the tower while their dad looked at something through
binoculars from the top. I moved on, because I also found a trail that wasn’t
actively flowing.  

This led me to where the trail comes near the railroad line. There was supposed
to be a cache there, but no such luck, or at least I didn’t see it. There was a
bridge, over Sugar Creek. Sugar Creek was creeking right along at a good clip,
coming out from a tunnel beneath the IAIS. Every few seconds a good-sized chunk
of ice would float by. The water was dirty, cold, and roaring.  

I moved on, to the West Loop of the trail, which circles a big pond. To get to
the West Loop I had to slog up a big hill covered in snow that had half melted,
so that with the push-off part of each step I would sink down an inch or so. It
got maddening. But I kept walking (my feet steadily getting wetter despite my
water-resistant shoes). The first cache on the West Loop is hidden somewhere on
a big dirt mound by a little stream, but the catch is you have to walk through
solid bramble to get there. It was the thickest bush I’ve ever whacked, and
practically every plant had thorns. I mentally composed the cache log: “For
this cache: A curse on you, and your children, and your children’s children,
unto the seventh generation.” It was pretty damn bad -- and when I got there,
it was too covered in snow for me to find anything. So I bushwhacked back to
the trail, mystifying a group of girls who were walking past, and moved on.  

I finished out the trip with two easy caches, one in an oak tree and one in a
dead log near the parking lot. As I moved between those two, I saw a bunch of
guys ice-fishing. Apparently, despite three days of thawing, the ice is still
18 inches thick.  

Krumm is rich with potential krokay courses. I’m getting krokay up again soon,
and maybe we can play our first new game there. We’ll see how the weather acts.
If it stays as squishy as this, Ill probably wait a week. I’d comment on the
beauty of Krumm itself, but I caught it on an off day, with all the ground a
giant bog and no leaves on anything. Despite that, I guess it’s a pretty nice
place.  

I walked the road back to my bike, and (now with a tailwind, on the gravel
road, but a headwind on the highway) biked back to town -- stopping briefly at
Arbor Lake to see if there was little enough snow for me to find the cache I
missed the other day. (No.)

* * *

Other stuff!  Eric, Ben and I have been exploring the campus more. A couple
weeks ago, we found an unfinished room underneath one of the buildings here,
with no floor. If you weren’t careful to step on the joists, you could fall
straight out into outer space. That’s not true. There were no joists, only a
rolling landscape of a spongy white architectural substance that I couldn’t
identify. But there was also a tarp and some teabags and a coffeemaker and
Christmas lights and a note.  

The note was addressed to whoever stumbled across this place. It said feel free
to take some cookies -- though there weren’t any just then, we discovered --
and to please not disturb anything. It was unsigned.  

So Ben and Eric and I wrote a note back. We told these people that their
hideout was pretty sweet, and asked if they’d like to see more awesome places
on campus. We suggested that we meet sometime, and said we’d check back in the
future for a reply.  

A few days later, we checked and there was another note, saying they’d be very
interested in seeing what we’d found. So we left a meeting date and time, and
waited for them to approve of it. When we got their next note, it said, “Your
proposed time and place are agreeable to us. Come alone and come unarmed.” It
was signed with an angry face and a devious face, and in a P.S. there was a
happy face.  

We met in one of the theaters at 11 at night. Ben, even though he had proposed
the original meeting date in the first place, had lamely decided not to come,
because it was his birthday and a bunch of his friends had come over to have a
party. So it was just Eric and me. Also, the theater was in use -- some fool
group was having auditions there. Luckily, it wasn’t 11 yet, so we waited
around, exploring to see what was locked and unlocked tonight. At about 10:55,
we peeked in the back of the theater to hear the auditioning people closing up
shop. Ha ha! So a few minutes later, we went up to the catwalk and started
waiting for our contacts.  

Unfortunately, there was no light in the theater, so they wouldn’t be able to
see us when they came in. Instead, we went down to the stage area. While we
were remarking on how good our timing was, Eric gestured to his side. There was
something there in the darkness. But I couldn’t make out what it was. It looked
like someone sitting, but it also looked like an empty Adirondack chair. Eric
called out quietly: “Hel-lo?” No answer. I was trying to decide if there was a
person there, trying to psych us out before busting us for being in the theater
after hours, but Eric asked, “Are you who we’re looking for?” and the brightish
area in the darkness said, “Yeah.”  

We moved into some light. There was a guy and a girl, both first-years and
neither of them people we’d known before. We introduced ourselves, and then
talked about our various escapades of the past and planned exploits for the
future. As some of these were probably faintly illegal, I won’t describe them
now, but suffice it to say that we gained a mutual respect for each other. It’s
hard not to respect someone who has a grappling hook and has used it -- they
had. We toured the building, but found doors annoyingly locked. Eventually we
walked together to wherever we were going next. All in all I couldn’t ask for a
whole lot more out of a Wednesday night. Eric and I even got to go to Ben’s
birthday party and harass him for being lame.  

I’ve been working at CERA again, so that’s cool. So far it’s been a lot of
database-entering stuff, but it’ll get more exciting. Relatedly, I’ve also
applied to live in EcoHouse next school year. EcoHouse is a college-owned
off-campus house that aims to minimize its impact on the environment by
conserving energy, buying local foods, composting, growing a garden, and other
stuff. Doesn’t that sound just like me? Well, I hope I get in. I think my odds
are good -- I talked with a current resident (a guy in my intentional
communities class, the Jordan who took me back to Ohio once last school year),
and he said a lot of people wanted to live there in the fall because they were
going abroad in the spring. Since I’ll be going in the fall if I go -- another
topic I’m going to address in a moment -- I have a good chance of being picked
to fill up an empty slot, I think.  

