---
title: Cool things
date: 2009-10-07T03:28:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2009-10-cool-things
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2009/10/cool-things.html
categories:
  - irrelevancies
  - friends

---

We rearranged some furniture a few weeks ago here, and ended up with a big
space in the kitchen. We wanted to put a table in it, so Nathan and I went to
the local Goodwill. There were no tables of that size to be bought, but on the
way back, as I drove us along East Street, Nathan spotted a table just sitting
out in a yard by the curb. Upon further investigation, it turned out to be a
*stereo console, vintage 1980s, with an AM-FM radio, turntable, and 8-track
player.* We asked at the house there, and the people were indeed throwing it
out. Now, this thing is seriously awesome, and probably cost a pretty hefty
amount when it was new. Nathan and I carried it a few hundred yards back to the
house (it wouldn’t fit in the trunk), and installed it in its place in the
kitchen; it fit perfectly. Inside it were several terrible 8-tracks, such as
“Polka Party” and “Chet Atkins: Pickin’ Nashville”. We couldn’t get the 8-track
part to work, but oh well, at least until we get better tapes. It also came
with a 7-inch record of Jimi Hendrix playing “Gloria”. The turntable was
confusing at first, but with the help of the *included user manual*, we figured
it out, and got it to really play Jimi, with awesome sound quality. So, not
only do we have more table space when the top is folded down, but we now also
have a fully functional record player (and AM-FM radio) with a sweet stereo
system. Everyone in the house thinks it’s pretty much the best thing ever.
Lizzie said, “I’m so glad it’s a part of my life.” So am I. And through this
boon, we’ve also discovered that records gravitate toward a record player:
everyone who’s heard of our find seems to have some old records buried away
somewhere, or know someone who has some records, and they all plan to bring
them over to EcoHouse sometime. So the console is also a great community
builder! I bought some records at Goodwill for it today at 79¢ apiece: some
Beethoven, the *Grand Canyon Suite* by Ferde Grofé, and *Feets Don’t Fail Me
Now* by Herbie Hancock. (Trivia: Herbie Hancock went to this college.) It is a
source of great joy.

A few weeks ago, Ben (you may recall him from previous years) and I walked to
the local ice cream place, Dari Barn. He wasn’t hungry, but he did say their
funnel cake fries looked good. He also admired their little collection of
figurines in the window, and, since he has a small collection of gnomes (that
is, two), he mentioned that a gnome would go perfectly there. This he said
while the girl at the counter was taking my order, and she asked if he would
bring a gnome. She offered to make a trade: she would give him an order of
funnel cake fries, if he would bring them a gnome later. It happened too quick
for him to think, and before he knew it he’d agreed to give them a gnome.

Well now Ben was in a jam! He didn’t have an extra gnome to give out: he only
had two, and they were both very close to him. Their names are Miguel and
Rudyard, and he hand-painted Miguel. So he would have to find a new gnome,
which wouldn’t be as easy as it might sound.

Fast forward to yesterday. I was going to Goodwill to replenish my stock of
sweaters, and I decided I should buy Ben a gnome to give to the Dari Barn
people. The only thing I found was a terra cotta gnome-shaped candle holder,
where you put the candle inside, and the gnome’s eyes and mouth glow an eerie
color, presumably (I never lit it). I bought that today, and tonight we walked
again to Dari Barn. It was much colder than last time, and with a stiff wind.
We brought them the gnome, but none of the same people were working, and they
seemed pretty puzzled as to why we had brought them a gnome candle holder. They
were prepared to accept it, but they weren’t nearly as awesome as the girl
who’d put Ben into gnome debt, and they weren’t enthusiastic about the whole
situation. On the other hand, Ben really wanted to keep the gnome. Eventually
we decided that he would enjoy it much more than the Dari Barn people, so we
ordered with normal money and kept the gnome. Now he’s going to paint it too,
and name it, and eventually I’ll go to his room and find it illuminated with
gnomelight.

