---
title: A week
date: 2009-01-24T00:42:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2009-01-week
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2009/01/week.html
categories:
  - fun in the cold
  - barefooting
  - trains

---

*Note: Edited in 2017 to remove details, some personal, most merely
pointless and boring.*
{: .prefatory }

I’ve been snowfooting. The way I decide whether to put shoes
on is, if I’m going between two places that are pretty close to each other, I
won’t bother, but if I’m going out specifically to be in the snow for an
extended time, then I put them on. Thus, I go barefoot to all my classes and to
the doors of the dining hall (where I have to put on the sandals that I keep
there). But when I went out and found a couple geocaches in town, I put on not
only my shoes but also all my other winter gear, including my shapka that I got
from Nana & Papaw for Christmas. I found two of them, but the other one that I
was looking for was buried under too much snow. I think I’ll look for some more
this weekend.  

I’ve been researching the trains here. The line is owned by Union Pacific, and
they redid some parts of it this fall with ribbon rail. It goes from
Marshalltown to Eddyville, something like 80 miles. Trains come south out of
Marshalltown every Tuesday, Thursday, and Sunday afternoon (and pass through
town in the evening). Then they get new cars and head back up to Marshalltown
later that night, presumably to refill them. They carry almost exclusively
grain hoppers and tank cars, though occasionally Weyerhaeuser sends some lumber
south too. The line connects in Eddyville to a much higher-volume BNSF line
that runs lengthwise across Iowa, but the UP engines apparently stay on this
short line. Yesterday evening I saw engines 1924, 394, 737, and 733 go south,
and the same four came back north.  

So that’s the trains that come through campus. There’s also a line that goes
through town, the Iowa Interstate line, but I don’t see that one much, so I
don’t know much about it -- and anyway, I wouldn’t want to try to compete with
[these people](http://www.iaisrailfans.org/). That they have a website that
extensive for the Iowa Interstate railroad (not an especially large railroad)
tells you a little about what there is to do in Iowa. The two lines intersect
in town next to a restaurant called the Depot. I hear there’s a geocache near
the rail diamond (that’s what they call an intersection) there. I may go find
it this weekend.
