---
title: asf.
date: 2010-01-08T01:36:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2010-01-asf
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2010/01/asf.html
categories:
  - reformed spelling
  - photos
  - snow sculptures

---
(That’s English for _etc._ and short for “and so forth”.) 
{: .prefatory }

Yesterday I did my latest snow sculpture.

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 106.jpg" %}

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 111.jpg" %}

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 107.jpg" %}

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 105.jpg" %}

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 101.jpg" %} 

And now I’m going to put some more pictures up. I just dumped a bunch of
them off my camera.

* * * 

These four are from something my frend Ben and I did in the theater. We
suspended a bucket from the rafters.  

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 001.jpg" %} 

We did it by going on the catwauk. We used some other rope to slide it so that
no one could reach it from either part of the catwauk,

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 007.jpg" %}

and hung it too hye for anyone to reach,
{: .run-in }

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 004.jpg" %}

or to jump to.
{: .run-in }

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 003.jpg" %}

* * *

These are from something I did with some other frends, whose names I
won’t mention. We clymed a bilding on campus. Using a grappling hook.

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 009.jpg" %}

These are the two frends in question.

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 010.jpg" %}

And this is the bilding. We clymed up it in stages, mooving up each giant
stair-step in turn. They’re each about ten feet hye.  

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 022.jpg" %}

Then we took pictures of the view.  

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 020.jpg" %}

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 016.jpg" %}

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 038.jpg" %}

And had fun with long exposures in the dark nyte. (“hi”!) 

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 035.jpg" %} 

* * * 

Some train pictures. This one is a goste.

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 045.jpg" %}

This one is
two hours erly, because this was the day of the Iowa-wide 16-inch blizzard, and
Union Pacific wanted to miss that if they could. The result was a rare daytime
winter train thru college.

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 058.jpg" %}

I thaut this
was a pritty trippy effect. I got it unintentionally by following the
train’s motion with my camera.

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 066.jpg" %}

This isn’t a train, but rather a bowl of delicious egg drop soup I made
for myself.

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 055.jpg" %}

- 2 cans of chicken broth (or was it one?) 
- 3 eggs, beaten 
- 2 green onions 
- ginger 
- other spices to taste 

Put the broth in a saucepan and turn the heat on hye. Slice up the onions
and put those in, and also add some ginger. Pepper is good too. Once the broth
is just about boiling—very hot—stir it around so it’s swirling in a
circle. Before it stops mooving, dribble the eggs into it. They’ll
congeal in the heat and form noodles. Then you eat it, and it’s
delicious.  

* * *

Christmas pictures. I hav more on Facebook, so here are a cupple key
photos, featuring first the undeniable star of the show, Cammy.  

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 084.jpg" %}

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 088.jpg" %}

And also a rare syting of the Oregonian Joseph outside its natural habitat.
Plus a little winey on the bubbly.  

* * *

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 090.jpg" %} 

Here’s my snake’s injury, for those of you who heard he got
injured. It looks bad, but it was way worse. All the area of pink skin you see
was an open wound. Now it’s pretty much all sealed up, and we’ll
both just hav to wait until he sheds a few more times and the scales cover the
area again. He can move his tail now, which he couldn’t do directly after
he got the injury (I think he burned himself on something), altho he’s
not very flexible in the area of his body where the sore is. Hedward of the
pink skin is a scab that hasn’t fallen off.

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 096.jpg" %}

I just thaut this was precious.

{% include fig.html src="TwentyTen 098.jpg" %}

* * *

And lastly, a list of peeple with unmistakable voices.  

- William Elliott Whitmore (singer who comes to the college) 
- Ralph Stanley (bluegrass singer) 
- Tay Zonday 
- Jane Kaczmarek (Malcolm’s mom, *Malcolm in the Middle*)
- Richard Nixon 
- Roseanne Barr 
- John Goodman 
- Morgan Freeman 
- Weird Al Yankovic 
- Gilbert Gottfried (Zazu) 
- Fran Drescher 
- Mitch Hedberg (late comedian) 
- Michael Clark Duncan (John Coffey, *The Green Mile*) 
- Johnny Cash 
- Jenna Elfman (Dharma) 
- Ellen DeGeneres 
- Barry White 
- Redd Foxx 
- Louis Armstrong 
- Jim Gaffigan (comedian) 
- Fred Rogers 
- George W. Bush 
- Dolly Parton 
- Michael Jackson 
- Elizabeth Devlin (singer, came to the college once) 
- Judge Judy 
- Stephen Hawking (I choose not to view this as cheating) 
- Craig Ferguson (Mr. Wick, *The Drew Carey Show*) 
- John Madden 
- Robin Williams 
- Michael J. Fox 
- Phil Hartman 
- Paul Harvey

That’s all. You can stop reading now, finally.   
