---
title: Covered in bees
date: 2010-06-23T05:08:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2010-06-covered-in-bees
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2010/06/covered-in-bees.html
categories:
  - interesting people
tags:
  - NYC

---
This is the second post in just a few days. You might not have seen the one
below it yet… I don’t know how dedicated my readership is. 

As you know, I qualified for the finals of the Williamsburg Spelling Bee,
barely. The finals were yesterday: Monday the 21st. I stepped into the bar just
in time to save $2 on a beer by catching their happy hour, and then signed up
and sat while the rest of the finalists came in and signed up on the sheet for
the night. The finalists were the top three placers from each qualifying bee,
each of which was open to eighteen whoever-type people who could wander in off
the street. There were a lot more than six bees leading up to this final, but a
lot of people won several times, and a couple people couldn’t come (including
the legendary Wilson I’d heard so much about), so we actualy only had thirteen
people, plus a bunch of spectators.

At 7:30, the hosts got the show rolling. They’re Bobby Blue, who founded this
thing back in 2004, and Jen Dziura, who’s good at pronouncing everything except
her own name. (It’s Polish, and Poles would say it “Joo-ra”, but she and her
immediate family say “Di-zoo-ra”. Damn shame.) I hadn’t seen Bobby Blue yet,
because he wasn’t at the bee when I qualified—standing in for him was that
shiny-headed man you may remember. To kick off the bee, Jen and Bobby sang a
song they had written about the Williamsburg Spelling Bee, with Bobby on
guitar. Everyone enjoyed that.

There were all sorts of competitors there. A lot of them were local
twenty-somethings, but there was also, for example, a senior woman with a cane
that lights up with the flick of a switch on the handle. During the round of
icebreaker questions, Jen asked, “If your cane could have any superpower
besides lighting up, what would it be?” (Answer: clearing traffic.) There were
some middle-aged types, and one man who had just come off of getting second
place in the AARP’s national spelling bee, and I think had flown in from
California for the pleasure of competing.

The bee ran mostly like last time, with round 1 being one word, and round 2
being two, but this time we cut out the three-word round and just made round 3
the round where you spell until you exhaust your strikes. I was fourth on the
list, and I successfully spelled *organogeny*, which is the process of organs
forming. Not many people misspelled anything in the first round, but I think at
least one person did. In the second round I got one right, *legerdemain *(which
I repeated in a flowery French accent), but screwed up on *bottine *(a little
French boot thing that women supposedly wore at some point), because I just
forgot to think, I guess. I could’ve figured out I should use an *o*, but I
didn’t think about the definition, or about the Spanish word *bota* for “boot”.
I just thought about the pronunciation, which sounded like “bah-teen”, and
spelled it the way it would be spelled if you pronounced it that way in French:
BATINE. Now that I think about it, that’s eerily similar to the mistake I made
with *marotte*. And I doubt I’ll ever like the French, because of their damn
words for stupid trivial things that should be easier to spell if they must
even exist, which they of course shouldn’t. But I still had two strikes, so I
watched the rest of the round go by.

In round 3 I just really disappointed myself. I got two words right:
*Pentateuchal* and *mucilaginous*. I spelled *rubefacient* with an *i *(damn
schwas!). And then Jen gave me a dirty, unanalyzable word: *sticomythia*. It
has to do with telling stories back and forth, so the *myth* part was obvious,
but where the hell was I supposed to have heard the root for talking back and
forth? I guessed it had an *h*. It didn’t. And there was no way I had placed.
So all I could do was sit down and watch everyone else.

Immediately I felt bitter, because when Tamara, a British woman, came up after
me she got a long string of words, all of which I knew how to spell
unhesitatingly. But she eventually got out on something where I’d have had no
clue whatsoever; I believe it was *steentjie*, which is some species of
something-or-other from South Africa (it’s Afrikaans, and pronounced
“steenchy”). And as the bee wore on, I realized I might not have gotten too far
among these people even if I hadn’t been given dirty schwas and nonce Greek
roots. There were some serious spellers there, people who could spell things
like *ditalini*, which all knowledge of Italian tells you should have at least
one doubled letter (my guess was DITTELINI). When David R., the AARP
2nd-placer, came on, I realized I could never have gotten first place. This was
because he spelled something pronounced “ainchee”. Go on and guess. You’d never
get it in a million years without access to a dictionary or a South African
botanist. If you were Scottish you might try AIN’T YE?; if you were a regular
person you’d probably go with something like AINCHIE. David R. said, “Oh,
Afrikaans?”, and then, without even pausing, calmly spelled UINTJIE.
Immediately Bobby yelled, “That is the *hardest word* I have *ever* seen in
*all the years* of this spelling bee!” David R. had already spelled about 20
words without even flinching, so they told him he could sit down and they’d
call him back up if anyone somehow got close enough to challenge him. If they
hadn’t done that, he probably would’ve spelled every word in their book of
words, and then asked them to start quizzing him on Chinese characters.

As I’d expected, I didn’t place, but everyone got prizes; mine was a set of
Bananagrams. David R. got two hundred bucks and a big stuffed neuron with cute
eyes and a trophy and books and a DVD of *Spellbound*. He also got a big bar
tab, but he let the other David, David Z., have it. I hope you’re happy, David
R.: you won enough to cover most of your airfare back to California, and killed
the dreams of everyone in New York who thought they were pretty good at
spelling. He did look pretty happy, actually. He was having fun with his big
plush neuron.

A bunch of people left, but some of the other spellers hung around at the bar
and talked. David Z. bought me a drink with the tab he’d inherited, and he and
Jen and I sat at the bar a long time and talked about stuff. I met Carolyn,
another speller, and we both reminisced about our National Spelling Bee
days—she went in 1997. Eventually the night died out and I went home, perhaps a
loser, but happy to at least have played.


