---
title: Cartoon
date: 2010-01-19T00:42:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2010-01-cartoon
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2010/01/cartoon.html
categories:
  - cartoons

---
Every once in a while I draw a cartoon in my journal. I havn’t been doing it as
often as I used to—there are only two in my whole current 600-page journal, and
I’m 520 pages into it. But here’s one I did a few days ago. Click on it to see
it full-size. 

I’ll explain a little bit first. These cartoons are based on a karacter I came
up with when I was in, oh, fourth grade, called Chicklet. Probably a lot of his
appeal to me then was that he’s easy to draw. Over time, more karacters hav
joined the strip, which is good, because it’s tuf to carry out a strip with
just one karacter. Each one represents someone I know. Aaron and Keith bothe
hav one based on cartoons we used to draw in classes when we wer supposed to be
doing other things that wer too boring. Keith’s is a chameleon, a spin-off from
his strip The Chameleon Brothers. Aaron’s is an orb with eyes. The only one
that makes an appearance in this strip, tho, is a snake that’s supposed to
represent Micah, for reasons I’v forgotten by now. He drew cartoons, but none
of them wer snakes—I think I may hav asked him once what kynd of cartoon he’d
like me to use to represent him, and he picked a snake. If I fynd some more
good cartoons, I myte scan those in and post them here. One of the volumes of
my journal is still in Iowa, but I have the other three big ones (plus the
small, old one) here in Ohio.

{% include fig.html src="Patterns 001.jpg" %} 

    
This has been an uneventful week. I’v been reading, and (while the snow was
around) sledding, and werking on my font, and stuff. I’m going back to Iowa
this weekend. I’ll hav lots of fun stuff to tauk about this semester. The
latest news is that the assistant manager of Bob’s is stepping down, and I myte
take his place—I havn’t decided yet, since I don’t know all that it entails.
I’ll also, assuming this program is still underway, be volunteering to teach
English to immigrants in ?Cedar Rapids, most of them Somali. And of course I’ll
be going to Costa Rica. I’m definitely excited about the near future. And the
future after that, actually. I’m all sorts of excited.
