---
title: Faux Toes
date: 2010-04-09T02:18:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2010-04-faux-toes
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2010/04/faux-toes.html
categories:
  - adventure
  - traveling
  - photos

---

*Note from the year 2017: When I made this, frustration with Blogger caused me
to put my photos on Facebook instead. Then a couple years later, Facebook
rolled out Timeline and I emptied all my photos out of it, not remembering that
I’d pointed to them from this post. So below the original post I’ve tossed in
some of my Costa Rica photos, though I have no idea whether they’re the ones
I had in that album.*
{: .prefatory }

#### Original post

So, I finally got my pictures uploaded. Since I’ve got so many, I’m taking a
break from what I usually do, which is putting them here, and instead I’m going
to send you a link to the Facebook album I made out of them. Facebook assures
me that you can get to the album even if you don’t have a Facebook page, just
by clicking this link: [*dead Facebook link*].

You may also be interested in this album, which includes pictures of the whale
that I made back in winter: [*another dead Facebook link*].

And I’ll put one picture straight onto this page. It’s stitched together from a
video of me jumping off the rocks at the *chorro*, so there are three of me in
it:

{% include fig.html src="Stitch.jpg" %} 

Enjoy!

#### Photos that actually exist

##### Costa Rica

{% include fig.html src="BackLog 108.jpg" caption="This was the first international
flight I had ever taken, and I was enthralled by seeing the landscape of a new
country materialize below me. It was also the first time I’d been to the tropics, so the landscape was exciting and different from anything I was used to." %}


{% include fig.html src="BackLog 115.jpg" caption="When we got to the ground, the landscape continued to amaze me." %}


{% include fig.html src="BackLog 118.jpg" caption="We were in San José briefly before we got to the cooperative we were studying, and in that time I appear not to have taken many pictures of people---maybe there weren’t many on the streets---but I found some signs.

This one says, “Making peace is reducing your speed.” Costa Rica has no standing army, and peace is a national point of pride." %}


{% include fig.html src="BackLog 120.jpg" caption="And, though I have no grasp of Costa Rican politics, this one shows a politician some people clearly don’t like. 

> We’re going to recover    
> and <strike>modernize THE TREASURY</strike>   
> *privatize   
> traitor* [lit. homeland-seller] " %}


{% include fig.html src="BackLog 122.jpg" caption="El Silencio was the first town I’d ever seen where chickens roamed the streets." %}


{% include fig.html src="BackLog 121.jpg" caption="The bus stop and the mural, which was painted with the help of a previous group of tourists from Québec." %}

{% include fig.html src="BackLog 123.jpg" caption="The schoolhouse has an outside area reminiscent of a carport, where a lot of class takes place because why wouldn’t it in Costa Rica?" %}


{% include fig.html src="BackLog 128.jpg" caption="I tended to assume that to see the really cool wildlife, you have to go deep into the jungle. Well, this fellow was hopping along the road in town." %}

{% include fig.html src="BackLog 132.jpg" caption="This looks very lush and wild. It’s certainly green, but it’s actually a plantation of African palm, for which the native rainforest was almost certainly slashed and burnt." %}

{% include fig.html src="BackLog 138.jpg" caption="There’s an ample soccer field. One must prioritize fútbol." %}


{% include fig.html src="BackLog 148.jpg" caption="This little town half an hour from paved roads has a jungle-wildlife zoo. (A good clue that tourism has been making a mark here.)" %}


{% include fig.html src="BackLog 169.jpg" caption="This highly inferior photo (sort of) shows Juan Carlos, our guide for the week, and what cassava looks like when you pull it out of the ground." %}

{% include fig.html src="BackLog 173.jpg" caption="I remember nothing about where this frog was, but it certainly seems to be relaxed there." %}

{% include fig.html src="BackLog 210.jpg" caption="A swim out at the *chorro* outside of town, the same place where this post’s one surviving original photo was taken." %}

{% include fig.html src="BackLog 196.jpg" caption="A couple photos from a vacation-from-our-vacation that we went on, to the beach town of Quepos. Where iguanas run wild and challenge you to explain why you’re on their turf." %}

{% include fig.html src="BackLog 205.jpg" caption="Beach in Quepos" %}

##### The White Whale

{% include fig.html src="BackLog 038.jpg" %}
{% include fig.html src="BackLog 021.jpg" caption="Harpooned" %}
{% include fig.html src="BackLog 025.jpg" caption="Though someone decided they’d rather the harpoon be an antenna and the whale be a caterpillar." %}
{% include fig.html src="BackLog 040.jpg" caption="From afar its sirenian beauty lures you" %}
