---
title: Changes / Feeling Real
date: 2010-02-05T23:50:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2010-02-changes-feeling-real
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2010/02/changes-feeling-real.html
categories:
  - meat
  - plans
  - reformed spelling

---

First off: a change of plans. I’m officially approved for accelerated
graduation, so I’ll be done after seven semesters. But, I’v known since I
applied that I may hav to re-evaluate which semester I’m taking off, since
there’s one particular class (Ethnography of Communication) that counts for
both anthro and linguistics, and I need to take that to finish out both of
those fields of study. My advisor is the one teaching this class, and she told
me she’d let me know as soon as the anthro department had decided which
semester to offer Ethnography of Communication. Turns out, it’s spring 2011,
which means that insted of graduating next December as I’d planned, I’m
graduating in May with everyone else, and taking a leave of absence for fall
2010\. That’s when I’ll be doing my traveling. This actually werks out better
for me in a few ways: One, the JET program’s application is due in December
sometime, but they’ll want to contact me all between when I turn it in and when
I actually leave for Japan (assuming I get in). So, I’ll be a lot more
available in college than I would while traveling all about the tropics at
places with sparse postal service and little cell reception and rare internet.
Also, I’ll hav another chance to take Japanese 102. I took 101 last semester,
but this semester, no matter how hard I tried, I couldn’t fit 102 in, even tho
I was just trying to audit it—it conflicted with too many different classes
that I needed too much. So this way I’ll be able to learn some more Japanese
before setting off for Japan itself. Meanwhile, though, for this semester I’m
going to be going to Japanese Table (日本語ランチテーブル), which is a thing
where, on Tuesdays, Japanese students and professors get together at lunch and
speak Japanese. That’ll keep me from getting too rusty—and, bonus, the Japanese
department pays for it, so I get to keep a lunch credit, which I can use to get
an OutTake (bag lunch) and supplement my dinner. This college positively akes
to give you free food. There’s no reason to spend lots of money on food here if
you can get off the meal plans. I myte start going to Spanish Table too.

Next up is something that I’v wanted to do for a long time, and I’v finally
done it. The story is adapted from my journal from a cupple days ago. If you
don’t think about meat much, it myte seem a bit graphic, but it’s nothing more
than any meat-eater should hav to be able to think about without getting
squeamish. Dan & Tracy, I believe you can handle it too. I’ve changed the names
for anonymity (and I figured I myte as well change them to something more
interesting than “John” or “Larry”.)

(Background: Erasmus, a guy I know, has been trying for the last week or so to
catch rabbits for food. He’s into older-time subsistence practices like I am,
but he’s done more with actually putting things into practice. I told him to
let me know if he ever caut one.)

It turns out catching rabbits is a real, possible thing that peeple can in fact
do. One of the traps Erasmus set caut one today, and he called me via Zoltan’s
phone. He asked that I bring his BB gun from his house. So I drove it up to the
north edge of campus. He showed me where he’d put the unsprung trap, and then
we wauked to the one with the rabbit: behynd the bleachers at a snow-covered
field. As he had forewarned me, the rabbit had bluddied itself up a little
trying to get out of the trap. But, it was still alive and kicking. We agreed
that a deadfall would hav been much more humane than these live traps, but they
wer the only ones Erasmus had. We considered where to kill it and figured
behynd the announcement stand would be the most inconspicuous place. He took
the trap there and pointed the BB gun at the confounded rabbit’s hed. “I’m
sorry, rabbit,” he said. “Thank you for giving your body to me.” And he shot it
cleanly. It was tenacious, so he had to shoot it again, but it soon
stopped—kicked its legs a few last times and went still. “I think that’s it,”
he said. It was a tense moment. Then we put it in plastic bags.

We had a heck of a time figuring out where to clean the cage without getting
questioned, but we found a shower. (He pointed out that in some places, what we
wer pretending to be doing—showering together, altho we didn’t really try to
make it look like that—would be way more unacceptable than what we wer actually
doing. For example, in Mississippi.)

We set the traps again, in a new place (the place he’d shown me erlier, we
decided, was too public), and then we took the rabbit back to his house. It was
dinnertime and everyone (seven peeple) was there, and reactions ranged from
Amelie’s delyte that Erasmus had finally caut a rabbit to Rosamaria’s horror
and not wanting to think about it. Everyone was pritty unanimous that we
shouldn’t clean the rabbit in the bathroom upstairs. So we took it—and the
computer that we wer using to watch YouTube rabbit-skinning how-tos—into the
basement. By now Nikolai was with us too, one of Erasmus’s frends. We got a
bucket and figured out how to get the meat out of this compact, furry package.

Erasmus took the first step, with Nikolai acting as meathook, and cut off the
hed, which involved lots of twisting. “This is vaguely grotesque,” he said.
Before we could get the skin off, we had to take off the feet, which involved
more twisting. I took off one of the forepaws. It felt really strange for a
moment to be turning a joint so forcefully the wrong way—it was against all my
previous experience of good things to do with limbs—but this was a new thing
entirely, and I got the paw off. They’re so tiny, the forepaws! I never
realized that.

We took turns peeling off the skin section by section, and finally we got it
all off. Nikolai had to leave before we wer quite done skinning it, so it was
just Erasmus and me from there. I acted as meathook while Erasmus carefully cut
open the abdominal cavity and pulled out the innards. Another thing I didn’t
know is that they’re so organized—they all come out at once, without taking any
meat with them (well, some of them are meat themselves, but you know what I
mean). And we wer left with the carcass, empty of everything but meat and bones
now. It’s the first time I’v ever seen an animal go from living thing to meat,
and now I know what it looks like—where everything is, how you take apart
something whose goal is not to be taken apart, how it becomes something you can
use, something you can eat. Thank you, rabbit.

This event made me feel like a fully legitimate member of the food chain for
the first time since I started thinking a little more in-depth about meat a
while ago. Some vegetarians say they don’t eat meat because they can’t stand
the idea of killing an animal; some meat-eaters eat meat but probably wouldn’t
be able to actually kill an animal if someone asked them too, and myte insted
become vegetarians. Now I know that I can stand to eat meat even with a very
clear knowledge of where it comes from. It makes me feel a little more real, I
suppose.

One last thing is that I got my first official eye exam today, since I hav to
send in an optometrist-completed review of my syte to the BMV to renew my
license by mail since I’ll be in Costa Rica on my birthday when it expires.
I’ve known for a while that my far-off syte has been getting a little blurrier
and that glasses myte be handy. That’s not something I’ m particularly happy
about, but I can deal with it. I’m not going to be wearing them much, probably
for driving and maybe classes, but I’ll hav them around. Once I actually get
them I guess I’ll poste a picture. While I’m tauking about eyesyte, a few more
thauts. I’m pritty shure that the reason I’m blurring out at far distances is
that I’v been studying too much with my eyes focused up close on print for so
many hours a day. Since I realized that, I’m trying to hold books a little
farther away and keep the lytes up and not squint so much, but another thing I
think about is that when I go outside it’s not only enjoyable but also an
investment in my eye helth. And, there’s also this thing I’v red: <a
href="http://ranprieur.com/me/eyes.html">http://ranprieur.com/me/eyes.html</a>.
It’s from a guy, Ran Prieur, whose blog I visit every once in awhile, read a
bit of, and then usually forget about for a month or several. He’s somewhat
primitivistic, in that he thinks our present society is fundamentally
unsustainable. I’m not shure about all the particulars of his philosophy, since
I don’t read his stuff all that often, but when I do read it, it’s usually
pretty good. The thing I linked to is about recovering eyesyte. Basically, he
argues that if your eyesyte is deteriorating it’s probably due to focusing on
things up-close a lot more than humans used to do, and a way you can werk
toward solving the problem is by looking off into the distance. Ordinarily I
would be a bit more skeptical, because Ran Prieur has said he’s really
interested in pseudoscience and likes it a lot, and I don’t take so charitable
a view of it. But he got results, and it’s hard to argue with those. He stared
out the window for three days on a long train trip, and says he took a whole
diopter off of his prescription in each eye. I don’t remember what his further
progress was like, and I’m not going to reread the piece ryte now because I
need to get to the store for some ingredients to finish the chili I’m making,
but it’s interesting. All ryte, bye!


