---
title: In place
date: 2010-06-02T03:42:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2010-06-in-place
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2010/06/in-place.html
categories:
  - trains
  - interesting people
  - work
tags:
  - NYC

---
At 3:29 in the morning I got on the _Cardinal_ train bound for New York. All
the pairs of seats had someone in at least one of them, so I asked an older
black man, “Mind if I sit here?” and he said sure and I sat and we both tried
to sleep until morning. 

When it was properly daytime, I ate some ginger snaps and gave him one. We got
to talking and I told him I was an anthropology major. “Since you’re in
anthropology, I’ll show you these,” he said, and took out some pictures from
his leather satchel. They were pictures of him in Ghana with members of the
Fanti people, in the traditional dress of their culture. It turned out he’s a
*nana* there: he only translated it one way, which was “king”, but he pointed
out that a *nana* is more of a servant and a helper in the society. He was
raised in New York, but he’s lived in Ghana a lot, and was given the title
after he stopped the spread of cholera there, and taught them about ecology,
and spent some time “living well”. Then (this was 1988) he changed his name
from George something-or-other; now his first name is Nana. He has two other
names, but I’m not going to mention them here, out of respect for privacy. He
showed some pictures of people with T-shirts that had his name on them.
Evidently he’s pretty popular. We talked a lot, and I didn’t read much, which
was something I’d planned on doing. But I was just reading in *Reading Like a
Writer* by Francine Prose about the difference between these days and the old
days. In the old days, a story like *Heart of Darkness* was plausible in its
framing: it’s framed as a story told by one sailor to a group of other ones.
But today, even though we go on long journeys all the time, people trade tips
on how to keep their neighbors from talking to them: headphones, intent stares
at whatever they’re doing, those black cloth eye-cover things. I was happy
talking to someone interesting for a day, even if he did have sort of bad
breath.

The *Cardinal* got into Penn Station at about 10:30 at night, and Nana took me
a block away, to a subway stop where I could get on the F train. We were in the
middle of towering towers and deliriously blinking lights, and I thought my
initial impression of the city: “Holy shit, is the whole place going to be like
this?” Then we went underground again, and it was a bit quieter. He showed me
how to buy a subway ticket, and sent me off to the F train stop, then went to
his train. I stood there, mostly alone, looking down the empty tunnel and
watching the occasional rat. I was carrying lots of money, my big packpack with
a sleeping bag attached to it, and my laptop in its case. Know what? Absolutely
no one robbed me. Seems like everyone in my family was telling me that going to
New York was as good as throwing all my possessions into a pit and possibly
committing suicide as well. I knew this was bogus even before I got there, but
now I can confirm it empirically. I got out of the subway near my friend
Darwin’s house, which was in a mostly unlit neighborhood, and I eventually
found his house and fumbled with the key that I was given under the mat and
made it inside. During this time, no one robbed me. Then I got inside and was,
of course, home free.

No one was in the house, but I called up Darwin’s mom, and she told me where to
stay. Then I called my other friend, Kane, and he was still awake, so we met at
a street just down the hill from Darwin’s house, and went to a 24-hour sandwich
place that Kane knows about. I had a tasty chiliburger and most of a milkshake,
and we talked about New York. He told me about Prospect Park, and the free
concerts that happen there. I’m pretty sure they’re all free, and there’s an
upcoming one by Norah Jones. Prospect Park is less than ten walking minutes
from Darwin’s house. There are tons of interesting-looking restaurants around
here. So far I’ve only been to that sandwich place and to a pizza place that I
visited with Kane the next day, but I think I’ll get some bread at a bakery
soon.

I’ve been exploring on my own time, now that, unlike at college, I have my own
time. Yesterday I went on a bike ride with Kane and his brother, and pulled off
what was easily my most impressive bike move in years. I was on a borrowed
fixed-gear bike, and we hit our first big hill, which I had never dealt with on
a fixie before, since this was my first time riding one. I realized too late
that it’s rather hard to control a fixie while it’s going down a hill. I tried
to slow it down as well as I could with my legs, but I was still going at a
horrendously unreasonable speed down the hill, straight toward a roadway with
pedestrians on it, on the other side of which there stood a fence. I hurtled
toward a woman with a baby carriage, and managed to miss that, by aiming toward
a lamppost at the left end of the fence. Before I could smash into the
lamppost, though, the curb took hold of my wheel and redirected me firmly off
to the left, down the road. Accepting this turn, I kept my feet on the pedals
and rode gracefully down the street until I could slow down enough to turn
around. “Guys,” I said, coming back to Kane and his brother, “I have no idea
how I didn’t fall off the bike just there.” They were impressed, and so was I.
The only consequence was that at some point the tire rubbed a nasty stripe of
skin off my heel. Kane’s brother offered to take the fixie. I accepted this.

Today I walked around. First I walked down the street, and looked at what sorts
of interesting establishments I could find. There are a bunch of laundromats,
and a Vietnamese bubble tea place that I mean to check out sometime. I also
found a little tiny art supply store and bought a pen. Then I found my way to
Prospect Park. I walked around the park, making up each and every step as I
went. It’s a nice park, although it’s only the illusion of nature growing wild.
They’re up-front with you about Prospect Park being an illusion. Near a
waterfall, there’s a sign that explains, “The watercourse starts here, with
water piped in from New York municipal sources.” This waterfall, the sign also
explains, was placed around a blind corner so that visitors would hear it
before they saw it, which would make the park seem bigger. Despite all the
little subterfuges of Olmsted and Vaux, I enjoyed the park. Its paths twist
enough that I couldn’t see any other people a lot of the time, which was fine
with me. The trees smelled like trees should, and I followed tree-smelling
trails down the watercourse until I lost it. People were enjoying themselves
all over. I found myself at an exit to the park; I wasn’t going to use it, but
then I noticed that a sign across the street said “Brooklyn Botanic Garden”. So
I crossed the street in an only slightly dicey maneuver, and went into the
garden. I walked past trees with signs on them and found myself at a
greenhouse. In there I saw what a coffee tree looks like, and saw lots of
cactuses, and smelled a citronella plant that I never saw. There was a
delicious-looking cafe that I didn’t buy soup from because I’m aiming to enjoy
New York for as cheaply as it can be enjoyed. I enjoyed the park plenty without
that bowl of soup, following a trickle of water upstream until I found it
flowing out of a pond full of big luminescent Japanese carp. I tried to follow
it further, past a torii gate on the pond and a Shinto shrine in this very
Japanese area, but there were fences blocking me off from where they’re
building a new visitors’ center. I still feel cheated that I didn’t find the
source of that stream, but it was probably the tap anyhow, so I’m not too sad.
Eventually I turned around and got back to Prospect Park. I tried to find my
way back to Darwin’s house, but not with a great deal of dedication, and so I
ended up going the exact opposite way, to the very farthest point in the park
from where I needed to be. As I went around the Lake, it started raining, but
that didn’t bother me too much. I kept walking and walking and at last I
stopped making wrong turns and got back to where I had come in. I hopped over
the wall, as I’d done to come in, and walked back to the house.

Darwin’s mom had now come home. She has a little fat dog—a French bulldog—that
snorts when it breathes, and two cats that refuse to have anything to do with
me. I haven’t really talked to her much; instead I’ve spent most of my day
after I got back working on my fonts, and fooling around on the internet,
talking to people and such. I’ve been pretty unproductive, actually, but I’m
going to try to be a lot more produtive tomorrow. I might buy some better
groceries, too. I bought lots of rice and some noodles too, and for flavoring I
have diced tomatoes and tomato sauce. But I think I’d better find something
that’s not grain flavored with tomatoes. Perhaps something cheesy? Perhaps some
meat? I’ll think about it!

I’ll also write my first rejection letter. I got a novel that was submitted to
my internship company by email before I left, and I read the whole thing
yesterday. I was afraid coming in that I wouldn’t be able to find anything to
pick on in a novel written by someone who’s not a college student, someone
who’s trying to get paid good money to write a book. But it turns out I can
pick a book apart in a way that’s probably at least satisfactory. This one
wasn’t that good. It was repetitive, and not terribly gripping, and the writing
style was like an overdone exaggeration of Hemingway’s short sentences. (Fun
fact: not all Hemingway’s sentences were short and jabbing. Loads of them were
long.) I think I’ll be able to do this job. I start on Friday. I’ll keep you
posted. Maybe by then I’ll have had a bubble tea too, and I’ll be able to say
something abouth that. They’re supposed to be the greatest thing ever, if some
people at the college are to be believed, but I’ve never had one yet. I’ll let
you know if the rumors are true.


