---
title: 설악산 (Seoraksan) — Seorak Mountain
date: 2011-10-03T13:34:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2011-10-korea-had-memorial-day-today-so-we-had
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2011/10/korea-had-memorial-day-today-so-we-had.html
categories:
  - climbing
  - friends
tags:
  - Korea

---
Korea had Memorial Day today, so we had a three-day weekend. Since it’s getting
colder, we knew we’d better make the best of it. So we declared this our
weekend to go to Sokcho and Seoraksan. (We, this time, were me, Amanda, Sean,
and Sean’s girlfriend Natalie, who’s now here on her two-month visit. During
the day while we’re working, she mostly reads and studies.) 

Sokcho is a beach town in the north of Gangwon. Strictly speaking, here in
Sachangni I’m only sixty miles away from the coast. But what I hadn’t counted
on when I came to this small country, thinking how great it was that everything
was so close, was that mountains have a way of magnifying distances. The bus
ride that I take most often goes to Chuncheon. To get there the bus skirts
around the sides of every mountain between here and there, and sometimes it
zigzags up or down one of them. The exception is that occasionally, instead of
skirting a mountain, the bus just goes through it. There’s a highly developed
system of tunnels here in Gangwon, some of them a heck of a lot more ambitious
than I’d expect to find out in the country where all they lead to is a few
villages full of people whose highest economic ambition is to start up a
restaurant. But aside from the tunnels, it’s a lot of winding back and forth,
and so the sixty miles between here and Sokcho take three hours to cover, and
that’s if you time your buses just right.

What we wanted to do in Sokcho was go on a zipline that Amanda had read about.
When we got to Chuncheon, where we’d be picking up the bus to Sokcho, Sean
persuaded Amanda that we should do a little research at one of the computers in
the waiting cafe and find out exactly where this zipline was. It turned out it
was in Gangneung, not Sokcho, although no one told me this. If they had, I
could have told them we should get a ticket directly to Gangneung, because
that’s a proper city, not a little village that would only have bus service
from Sokcho. Oh well, to Sokcho we went. “I’m not bothered, I’m happy to just
*go*,” Amanda said. She spends all her time in buses gazing out the window at
the landscape passing by. I get the feeling that she could do this for days at
a time. The rest of us were a little more focused on having a destination.

We got to Sokcho and took a different bus to Gangneung, a ride of about an hour
and fifteen minutes. Now we were on the coast, and occasionally the highway
skirted the ocean. An enthusiastic wind was trying to push some of the ocean up
onto the highway today, but we were plenty high and safe, so I looked out at
the lighthouses and the harbors and the tetrapods. When we got to Gangneung, by
chance we found an information booth staffed by a guy with flawless English,
and he told us that the zipline was in fact not here in Gangneung, but a bus
ride and a taxi ride away near a place called Jumunjin. By now we were all fed
up with buses and waiting, so we found a taxi, told the driver where we were
going, and got dropped off there, right at the coast, at the bottom of the
zipline tower.

The guys running the zipline suited us up in harnesses and led us to the tower.
It was made of metal and stood on a rock prominence rising dozens of feet above
the ocean. The zipline crossed a small bay and ended at a beach on the other
side. We climbed stairs up to the top and looked down at the waves smashing
against completely unperturbed rocks, and made fun of Natalie for being
nervous. Sean went first to show her it was okay; he flew out into the air very
shortly there he was at the bottom. Natalie went next, and then Amanda, and
lastly I went. And it was a very good zipline. It wasn’t as long as the one at
Nami Island, but it was much more exciting to go over the churning ocean than
it was to go over a flat river with yutzes in big boats on it. I was pretty
happy, and the only complaint I had is one that goes for all ziplines—they
don’t last long enough. I want to ride a zipline down the whole length of the
Amazon River. But I have to settle for ziplines that last less than a minute.
Sometimes reality isn’t as cool. (Actually, the reality would be canoeing down
the Amazon, and that would definitely be cooler, so that’s not true in this
case.) I bumped to a halt over the beach and the guys helped me out of my
harnesses, and then we kind of just left. I thought we were going to hang out
at the beach, but it turned out the plan was to go back to Sokcho and hang out
on the beach there.

We’d spent so much of the day traveling that by now it was night, and we were
all famished. Luckily we found an awesome restaurant. It was the first time any
of us had been to a “self” (셀프, selpeu), so we didn’t understand it at first,
and kept asking the waiter, who wasn’t really a waiter, to bring us stuff.
After he showed us several times how it was supposed to be done, we caught on
that we were meant to go into the front room, take whatever we wanted to eat,
and bring it back to our table to cook it on the grill in the center. So we ate
a whole lot, and it was all delicious. Also, apparently they wanted to pay us
to drink beer. I couldn’t figure this one out, but two people both seemed to be
telling me that it was W9,000 per person if we didn’t drink, and W8,000 if we
had some beers. I never did really understand it, because at the end it worked
out to W9,000 for two of us and W10,000 for the other two, but that was still a
pretty sweet deal.

Everyone but me was pooped, so we found a motel and they went to sleep. I
wanted to find the beach, so I struck out walking. It turned out to be
difficult. I spent a long time staring at maps along the street wondering where
on them I was. In the end I found a nice Korean woman with English that was
much better than she believed, and she led me to where she was staying in a
jjimjilbang overlooking the harbor. But it was a long way from the harbor to
the beach, so I didn’t get to lie in the sand. I did, however, see squid boats.
Did you know they fish at night using really bright lights? Squids are
attracted to them. She explained this to me. It was pretty cool.

She was going to climb Seoraksan the next day, and so were we, but we got up at
different times, so I didn’t see her. Here’s what I wrote for the day in my
journal:

* * *

We woke up and it was time to get on the bus to Soraksan. So we did. In a
harbinger of what we’d see very soon, the bus became packed to the brim as we
went further and further toward the park.

It turns out Seoraksan is the answer to the question of what happens when you
seclude 50 million people in a tiny country and tell them all that one mountain
is the best one. There were people *everywhere*, throngs of them, clotting up
the entire park. Sean said he’s never seen so many people all trying to hike at
the same time.

After discussing it, we decided we’d all be happiest if the girls took the
cable car to the Gwon-geum-seong peak and Sean and I hiked on our own steam up
to Ulsan Bawi (Ulsan Rock), a rock Sean had read about. So we parted ways and I
started walking mwith him. Because Koreans are, Sean says, the slowest walkers
in the world, we spent the entire hike figuring out ways to get around the
numberless gaggles of them knotting up the trail. This led to some fun skirting
around the trail, especially at the bottom before it got steep and narrow. The
trail was pretty flat for quite a ways, all up until we got to the bottom of
the rock itself. Ulsan Bawi, I discovered, is a serious rock. We were standing
and looking up from the bottom of a congregation of rocks taller than any
building we’d seen since last time we were in Seoul, each of them probably
heavier than the town of Sachangni. People with foresight and Korean language
skills were climbing straight up a crack between two of them using gear that I
have to presume they booked months in advance. I desperately wanted to do that,
but we both had to resingn to using the stairs.

A red metal staircase was driven into the rock face, going all the way to the
top. It was full to capacity with people. Cutting corners and squeezing where
we could, we got on and moved slightly faster than average pace. But the views
were something that I hope to see in dreams for years to come. From our stairs
clinging to this bare rock, we could see the orest blow stretching out to cover
all of Seoraksan Park and crowding up to the waists of all the other rock peaks
around us. The sun lit it all from an artist’s angle and birds flew through the
sky in the infinite abyss around us.

We got to the top and it was fenced off, the view blocked on one side, there
was a souvenir vendor, and it was packed to the railings with Koreans and other
tourists. Sean and I agreed that Korea had, in this case, ruined the
experience. So we found our own rock, a mildly perilous climb away over some
rocks with deadly consequences for us if we’d slipped. Sean had a hamburger; I
had water. We enjoyed ourselves. I watched a butterfly until I couldn’t see it
anymore.

So then we had to climb back down. It was quicker, at least. We sat where we
were scheduled to meet the girls and Sean called them, only to find out that
they’d *just* gotten to the peak on their cable car. We climbed a whole
mountain in the time it took them to wait. It transpired that they’d filled
that time by fending off weird men and hiking to a nice waterfall with a fence
to keep swimmers out. The view from their peak was apparently very nice, though
Sean says we were higher up.

* * *

I’ll put up pictures of this sometime. It was a good one. I don’t know what
we’re doing next weekend, but I almost hope we stick around in town, because
I’m having so many adventures and not experiencing the endless stretches of
contemplative free time that I expected I’d have here. I was supposed to be
sitting at a desk and writing a book by this point, but here I am still
climbing mountains. Oh, how rough I have it.


