---
title: Sorry
date: 2011-07-26T05:25:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2011-07-sorry
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2011/07/sorry.html
categories:
  - languages
  - family
  - plans
tags:
  - Crowduck
  - Korea

---
Okay, okay, yes. I haven’t written for a long time. From now on entries
will be more frequent. Because I’m soon going to have more to write
about. Actually, I kind of already have a lot to write about. Let’s dive
in, shall we? 

My little trip to Korea has been steadily coming closer. Boy, is there a lot of
paperwork. I’ve told you about this before, but it’s still true.
The latest things I’ve had to send out for were my visa and a residency
certificate from the IRS that certifies that I’ve resided in the USA, and
thus I don’t need to pay Korean income tax on what I earn there. I
thought I was going to have to go to Chicago to interview for my visa, but they
do this by mail now, so that was convenient… comparatively.

Aside from all the paperwork, though, there is other news to tell. I know when
I’m leaving—the morning of August 17. I also know where I’m going.
I got a letter a while ago saying that I probably wouldn’t get placed in
my preferred city of Gwangju, because I was a little bit later on the uptake
than some people, and cities always get taken first. They gave me a list of
provinces and unpopular cities to decide among. So I did a little research,
with the help of a really handy website that I discovered called Wikitravel. It
turned out there was a fairly clear best. If I wanted to, I could go to a
province near a big city, or that contained a big city—like Gyeongnam, the
province that surrounds Busan—but then there was Gangwon. Wikitravel had this
to say: 

> Geographically elongated north and south, Gangwon-do is in the Korean
> peninsula’s central eastern region. About 82% of the land is
> mountainous. … The variegated beauty of Gangwondo’s four seasons
> radiates even more against the rich natural environment here. … The Seoraksan
> Mountains have multiple hiking courses, valleys, and cultural artifacts
> hidden in each valley, and are internationally renowned as a habitat for rare
> plants and animals. 

It kind of goes on like that. Apparently Gangwon is where Koreans go to see
nature, which made it a particularly good place for me. The downside to it is
that it’s not very heavily populated, so I may not have a whole lot of
people to talk English with, but then again, the isolation might cause the
Gangwon teachers to have a sense of solidarity that you might not find in Seoul
or Busan, where English speakers are like mice. So I told EPIK that’s
where I wanted to go. And I got it. It looks like it’s going to be a good
year, full of mountain climbing and kimchi and learning a language while
teaching another one. To get an idea of what it’ll be like, just look at
Mt. Seoraksan: 

{% include fig.html absolute=true
src="http://wikitravel.org/upload/en/b/be/%EC%B2%9C%EB%B6%88%EB%8F%99%EA%B3%84%EA%B3%A11.jpg"
%}

Not that scenery is going to guarantee that I’ll have no problems, but
still, it certainly can’t hurt.

By the way, I’ve been wanting to write a little about this for your
benefits: Pronouncing Korean words. This is so you’ll actually be able to
say out loud all the things I’ll be mentioning over the coming year.

Korean has a writing system of its very own, and it’s phonetic, unlike
Japanese and Chinese. Up until the 1600s, they were getting along using the
Chinese characters that the Chinese had foisted on them in the old days when
China ruled basically the whole continent. But then, King Sejong started
feeling a little more independent and realized that it made no sense for Korean
to use Chinese characters, because the Korean language works nothing like
Chinese. Briefly, Chinese is an *isolating* language, which means that
words don’t get anything connected onto them—there are no conjugations or
plurals; by and large every word stands on its own. That makes it pretty easy
(well, somewhat easy—well, easier than in other cases) to use a picture for
each word. You don’t have to have separate pictures for
“horse” and “horses”, because there’s no such
thing as “horses”. But Korean has lots and lots of conjugations and
tenses and particles and possessives and stuff. So the Chinese system
didn’t work so well. So King Sejong commissioned some scholars to create
a writing system that was phonetic.

They invented Hangeul, which is widely touted as one of the most logical
writing systems in the world. In Hangeul, each syllable is represented by a
square built of two to five phonetic characters. If you want to see what they
look like, go to any website in Korean, like, say,
[Wikipedia](http://ko.wikipedia.org/wiki/Main_Page). But I’m not going to teach
you how to build them, or what character has what sound, because this is
supposed to be about how to pronounce stuff, and I’ve already detoured enough
by telling you all that stuff about King Sejong that had nothing to do with
pronunciation.

Korean has eight vowels, but really only seven, because only old people
somewhere in Seoul still reliably distinguish *e* and *ae*. These are
the vowels:

*   *a*—as in *spa*
*   *ae *and *e*—as in *pet*, more or less
*   *i*—as in *ski*
*   *eo*—as in *cup*, more or less. It’s kind of counterintuitive, but that’s
    how that vowel is spelled.
*   *o*—as in *go*, but do it with a Canadian accent. It might help to imagine
    a Wisconsinite saying, “Don’tcha know?”
*   *eu*—the *e* in *sic ’em*. It’s kind of colorless. Not too far off from the
    *oo* in *book*.
*   *u*—as in *boot*
*   There are also some vowel combinations that are a little tricky. The main
    weird one is *oe*, which is pronounced *we* as in *wet*. Another tricky one
    is *ui*, which is sort of like in *buoy*. Oh yeah, and there’s *wo*, which
    is apparently just a common shorthand for *weo*—so it’s pronounced “wuh”,
    not “whoa”. The Korean currency, the won, is pronounced “one” there, as far
    as I know.  

It has a bunch of consonants, too, but the thing is that no one
can agree on how to transliterate them from Hangeul. I’ll stick to
one system, the most up-to-date one, but be aware that other people could
be misleading you by using older systems.  

These ones are pretty straightforward: *h, m, n, y, w, ng *(as in
*singer*, not *finger*). The *r* is like in Japanese,
mostly—that is to say, a trill sort of thing halfway between *l* and
*r* but not really either. Don’t worry if you can’t get it;
*l* or *r *is probably close enough. (Pronounce it as written—it
sounds more like one or the other depending on what’s around it, but
that’s accounted for in transcribing.)

The tricky bit is the other ones. Korean has three *series* of consonants.
English only has two: voiced consonants (for example *b, d, g*) and
unvoiced (*p, t, k*). All three of Korean’s consonant series are
unvoiced, all in different weird ways, so it’s really tricky for us to
tell the difference between, say, *d*, *t*, and *dd*. And for
your pronouncing purposes, it probably doesn’t matter, either. But if you
want to try it, this is what the series are like. They correspond to each
other: the p-t-k-ch from the first series is related to pp-tt-kk-jj from the
third series, and likewise related to the b-d-g-j from the second one.

The aspirated series is like our unvoiced series: *p*, *t*, *k*,
and *ch* are just like you’d say them in English, basically. That
one’s simple. (Except: for *ch*, flatten your tongue more against
the roof of your mouth than you would in English.)

The (plain) unvoiced series is like the aspirated series, but without the
little puff of air that we always say afterwards. Try it: say “pit”
in English with your hand in front of your mouth, and there’s a little
puff after the *p*. But you can say it without the puff: say
“spit”, and it isn’t there. That’s what *b, d, g,
*and *j* are like: *b* is like the *p* in *spit*;
*d* is like the *t* in *stitch*, and so on. EXCEPT: when they
come between vowels, they actually do sound like our *b, d, g, *and
*j*—they become voiced.

The tense ones are really tricky. The only good way to explain them is that
they’re like the plain unvoiced ones, but your muscles are tenser when
you say them. These are *pp, tt, kk,* and *jj,* but the first ones
also get spelled *bb, dd, *and *gg* a lot. Don’t worry if you
can’t say them, but if you can, hey, cool party trick. And yes, you can
start a word with them (and it looks funny), as you know if you’ve ever
tried jjigae or tteok.

The last thing is the difference between *s *and *ss*. Koreans will
tell you, inexplicably, that *s* is as in *slow* and *ss* is as
in *sun*. This makes no sense to English speakers, because we don’t
say those esses differently. The real answer is that regular *s* has a
little puff of air after it, just a little one, and it’s more delicate.
The double *ss* has no puff and is said a little longer. You can start
words with *ss* too. In fact the word for a double consonant starts with
one: *ssang*.

This has been a very long guide to pronouncing Korean, but hopefully
it’ll be useful for you later.


* * *


All right, on to other stuff. Crowduck is another thing that happened.
It’s almost a tautology to say that this year was another wonderful year
of fishing. I, personally, didn’t catch all that many fish, and I
didn’t catch an enormous one either, like certain parties did (ahem,
Tracy, Grandma, Uncle Howard). But I did catch some, and in so doing I spent a
lot of time out on the lake, and that’s what matters. There were an awful
lot of kids up there this year: Cory, Cammy, Sierra, Sierra, and Hayden. That
tended to turn things into kind of a hurricane a lot of the time, but it was a
manageable sort of hurricane. Apparently I was integral in keeping things
together, although it didn’t usually feel like I was doing much work. I
was just amusing the Sierras, or keeping an eye on Cory or Cammy, and that was
easy. Heck, Cammy was a joy to be around—she’s just learning how to talk,
so she’s in the phase where it’s really cute watching her put two
or three words together to say what she wants to say, but she can’t be
very bossy or whiny yet because she can’t put together whole sentences.
Also, she loved it up there, and that added to the cuteness. The other kids
were cute too, don’t get me wrong. But Sierra Grace has certainly figured
out how to be bossy, and also her diet consists of sugar mixed with sugar and
sprinkled with sugar, so she has lots of energy to do it. Sierra Gwyneth is
mercifully calmer, but she always wants me to flip her upside-down. All the
time—really. I don’t see what she gets from it, but hey, to each her own.
Cory and Hayden don’t say much, so there’s not a whole lot to say
about them, except that they seemed to be having a pretty good time.

Once the kids went to bed, there was poker. I started out pretty miserably by
losing about ten bucks in two days, but I came right back for the rest of the
week and smoked everyone with my superior hands, expert skills at reading
people, and radiant charisma. Dan, Grandpa, and I were responsible for
lightening the monetary loads of Dave, Beth, Tracy, and Uncle Howard. This year
we also invented the best poker game ever: Follow the Queen to the Liquor
Sto’. I could explain it to you, but it would be much more efficient to
tell you that it’s insanity embodied in a game, and also (it bears
repeating) it’s the best poker game ever. After ten hands we were still
discovering new wrinkles and complexities, and busting our guts. Grandpa
thought it was a bunch of Mickey-Mouse, though. There’s no way to
calculate odds on these wild-card games.

That about sums up Crowduck. I guess there’s the small issue of the
nanny, which I thought might become a bigger issue. She’s 22 years old,
same as me, and enjoys Scrabble enough to have gotten Scrabble tattoos, so I
thought we might enjoy some interesting conversations. But basically she barely
seemed to register my existence, so I kind of just forgot about her most of the
time. Though it was pretty funny at the end of the week when she partied hard
with a dockhand who’s about 15 years her senior. Apparently she’s
not into guys her age—they have to be better seasoned, I guess. We little boys
are invisible.

On the way back from Crowduck there was a little get-together in Chicago at the
reptile house. I wasn’t aware of it, but the cousins a generation above
me try to get together with each other at least once a year or so, so they can
drink and tell funny stories and play croquet. The reptile house is
Deb’s. It’s overrun by everything cold-blooded. She showed them to
us, and I got to hold the fattest snake I’ve ever seen, and also a
Vietnamese mossy tree frog, whose call sounds like a sonar ping. She has an
axolotl, which would be cool just for the spelling alone, but is also an
interesting creature. With all the turtles we eventually had a turtle race. (It
was a kid thing, so I ended up the oldest participant. Oh well.) Later on,
there were hilarious firework shenanigans, and lots of sitting around talking
about cars. I got Deb on board to take care of Tenzing while I’m gone. I
relaxed with the family.

So now there’s the small matter of the disbanding of my household.
Everyone is going to go their own separate way, it seems, and soon it will be
very rare for all of us to be together. Dad’s staying at the house, Mom
is moving out to an apartment, Micah is moving to some disreputable
friend’s house, and I’m going to Korea. It’s a whole
messed-up situation. But the thing is, I’ve seen it coming down the pike
from a long way off, and I’ve had time to prepare.

I don’t know if it’s the best way to solve all our problems. Dad
think that it would have been good for Micah if he and Mom had stayed together
and kicked Micah out; then he would quickly find out that his infinitely surly
and entitled-feeling attitude has no place in the real world, and he’d
have to come back home to sort out his problems. Mom and Dad would welcome him
in, but under rules, and, having run in with reality, he’d realize he
actually needed to follow those rules. Maybe that’s how it would have
panned out, but maybe not. Doesn’t matter now, because Dad has decided
that he’s had enough of trying with Micah. Also with Mom. I don’t
know, he had a few beers last night and basically disowned everyone but me, and
said I stand to “make out like a bandit” as his sole heir in a few
decades or so.

That’s Dad’s current attitude. Micah’s attitude is what his
attitude has been for a long time: I deserve everything because the world has
been so cruel to me, so you’d better hand it to me. He knows he’ll
have to find a job, but he’s done practically nothing to actually find
one. The disreputable friend he’s moving in with is going to insist that
he find a job to pay rent, so my prediction is that he’ll end up moved in
with Mom for a while. To this I say: Mom, it is *the most important thing in
Micah’s life* that you make him go out and find a job. That will force
him to stop smoking pot, or at least smoke less. It will also make him
appreciate that he has to work for stuff, rather than getting it handed to him.
Do not, *do not under any circumstances,* give him a free ride at your
apartment. He will never learn a single thing as long as you do that. If you do
that to try to prevent problems, like the possibility of him running away, you
will be going about it *all backwards*, because the more he learns about
how to fit into the real world, the *more likely* he’ll be to settle
down in one place and be responsible. Housing him in your apartment to keep him
from running away would be like breaking a horse’s leg to keep it in the
stable. Maybe it stays for a while, but when it gets out, it’s gone for
good, and it has to make it out there with a broken leg.

How do I feel about the whole thing? Let’s just say I’m glad
I’m putting a hemisphere between myself and these issues. When I come
back, maybe everything will be better, or maybe it will be even worse. In
either case, I won’t be obligated to deal with the problems any longer.
So I won’t.

Let’s finish this off on a better note. At Crowduck, Tracy told me about
the time she spent a bunch of months traveling around Europe. People had told
me before that I should spend some time there seeing all the culture, and I
knew it was a good idea, but I never thought about it all that much. I guess
maybe Tracy told me at the right mental moment for me, or maybe she was the
only one who described the continent evocatively enough, but I was inspired to
think of a potential alteration to the Year of Adventure plan. Once I’m
done in Korea, instead of going straight back to the States, what I think would
be terrific is if I took a ferry to China and got on the Trans-Siberian Railway
all the way to Europe. Then I could do the classical thing and hitchhike around
Europe for months. I’ve heard that this can be done very cheaply, which
stands to reason, since it’s hitchhiking. And really, there’s a lot
I should see. In the story that I’ve been trying on and off to write, a
big theme is how humans have very little species-wide memory, where that memory
is basically akin to cultural history. America has a few hundred years of
memory at best, unless you count the few remaining fragments of Native American
cultures that the memoryless white culture has done its damnedest to eradicate.
But Europe and Asia both remember thousands of years, and I want to experience
a place with that much history. So perhaps a voyage across Siberia is in my
future.


