---
title: 'SE Asia --- Pictures I: Chronologically'
date: 2012-04-08T15:26:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2012-04-se-asia-pictures-i-chronologically
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2012/04/se-asia-pictures-i-chronologically.html
categories:
  - photos
  - adventure
tags:
  - Thailand
  - Laos
  - Cambodia

---

Okay, I always keep my promises eventually, so now I’ll put up my
pictures from my southeast Asia adventure. Here’s how I’m going to
do this: I’ll make two posts. This one will be full of pictures that show
you all the places I went to. The second post is one that Micah put me up to---he
told me before I left to keep my eye out for awesome patterns, and if possible
to send some back for him. Little did I know before leaving that I was going to
a land where covering a building with awesome patterns is considered the best
way to decorate it, and all buildings are given this treatment. So, this post
will mainly be pictures of whole buildings and places and such, and the second
will be full of details.


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 012.jpg" caption="This picture and the next few
are from the Rajbophit temple complex in Bangkok.  It’s the first big monument
I found after landing in southeast Asia. And it was practically empty, which I
never figured out. The nearest I could guess was from a plaque telling the
complex’s story; it’s supposed to be a fusion of ancient temple-building styles
and modern French-influenced architecture. So maybe it doesn’t have enough
history, or maybe no one likes the colonialism built into it." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 014.jpg" caption="But in any case it wasn’t
totally empty---the occasional kid was wandering around in it." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 015.jpg" caption="Everything was made with the
utmost care. Consider how much effort must’ve gone into creating those walls.
Painting the patterns, sculpting the molding, inlaying the colored glass. And
then there’s making an elephant, and growing a bonsai. " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 019.jpg" caption="One of the few places I found
people in Rajbophit was in an actual temple with a Buddha in it. Almost every
temple I found in southeast Asia---modern or ancient, whole or nearly
rubble---had an assortment of people doing this: sitting, bowing low, leaving
money, and often burning incense." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 007.jpg" caption="The only other tourist I met
in Rajbophit was Glenn from Colorado. We talked about how puzzling the
emptiness was here, and he told me about his trip to Nepal. In this photo he
does a good impression of someone totally lame." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 020.jpg" caption="Together we moved on to Wat
Pho. It was a collection of lots and lots of temples, monuments, and statues of
various sorts. For example, here’s the Buddha sitting on some rocks under an
amazing tree." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 023.jpg" caption="These are stupas. Wat Pho has
dozens of them. Again, consider the details." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 024.jpg" caption="A pagoda." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 029.jpg" caption="This plucky fellow was
guarding the way to the next courtyard." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 030.jpg" caption="The walls of the courtyard
were lined with dozens upon dozens of these Buddhas, each one representing a
long time of intense craftsmanly devotion. " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 032.jpg" caption="More guards, these ones with
awesome hats. I believe Micah has some similar hats." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 033.jpg" caption="Inside an elaborately
decorated purpose-built building lies the largest Reclining Buddha statue in
the country. This is one of a few permissible poses for depicting the Buddha.
It represents him at the moment he passed into final nirvana." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 036.jpg" caption="We’re talking about a _big_
Buddha.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 037.jpg" caption="Feet are looked down upon all
throughout the region as the cesspool of the body. But the Buddha is so holy
that even his feet are worthy of high respect.  The kind of respect that
involves inlaying hundreds of intricately detailed auspicious symbols into
them." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 039.jpg" caption="Later, Glenn and I stuck
together and got on a boat across the Chao Phraya to see another wat. Every
public transportation vehicle the whole region through is packed tight on
pretty much every trip. But hey, the trip cost three baht---a dime." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 040.jpg" caption="Here’s what we came for: Wat
Arun, the Temple of Dawn." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 043.jpg" caption="It’s nice to have someone
looking out." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 048.jpg" caption="Here’s the top of Wat Arun. I
have a lot more pictures, but, perhaps more than any other building I saw on
this trip, Wat Arun was made completely of patterns, so the other pictures will
mostly be in the second post." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 053.jpg" caption="These creatures were all over
the wat, holding up higher levels." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 056.jpg" caption="Here’s Glenn, still around." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 062.jpg" caption="They build their staircases
steep around here." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 067.jpg" caption="Up as high as I could get in
Wat Arun, I took this not-the-greatest picture of a bunch of railing
decorations. But you can tell how high up I am." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 071.jpg" caption="Here’s Mom’s friend Yoshi,
who I met and had dinner with in the evening in Bangkok. With his hand he
demonstrates that you can take the Japanese out of Japan, but you can’t take
the Japan out of the Japanese." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 072.jpg" caption="He took me to the bus station
to get out of Bangkok. There, they were selling this enigmatic product." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 114.jpg" caption="The bus took me to Chiang
Mai, and I got a tuk-tuk to a place right near the main city gates. There’s
more city outside the gates than inside nowadays, but most of the coolest stuff
is still inside. Having these walls took Chiang Mai, for me, out of the realm
of the real, and made me feel like I was staying someplace fantastical. It’d be
even more amazing if there weren’t so many neon signs and hipster coffee shops
right next to it.  What this place must’ve looked like before it became so full
of tourists!" %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 095.jpg" caption="I quickly found a guesthouse
with several massive tamarind trees. This one hung over the entrance. Another,
bigger, one shaded the tables and lounging places in the yard. Its aerial roots
hung down far enough that you could bat them around while lying around
languorously." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 078.jpg" caption="Chiang Mai is temple central
for Thailand. All of them were beautiful.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 090.jpg" caption="All appearances to the
contrary, these three men aren’t real. I did a series of double-takes before I
realized they were wax." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 094.jpg" caption="Somewhere, an old stupa in
the city wall, or perhaps a standalone stupa, is taken over gradually by
nature. This bird has pretty much the coolest home any bird could ask for.
Well, except maybe the birds that live in Angkor Wat." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 098.jpg" caption="I didn’t take many pictures
at my cooking class, but it was a pretty enjoyable time. We all got to take
this mesh bag full of ground-up coconut and learn how to make coconut milk." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 097.jpg" caption="Since I made this one, pad
Thai has rapidly become a staple of my diet.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 102.jpg" caption="&nbsp;Another day, I took a
trip to Huay Kaew waterfall with H." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 104.jpg" caption="We were pleased with it." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 105.jpg" caption="On the way out, we were
greeted by this selection of allegedly delicious insects and other arthropods."
%}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 115.jpg" caption="Eventually I left Chiang Mai.
My bus stopped on the way once and I took a picture of this, something that
intrigued me but left me entirely flummoxed." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 118.jpg" caption="The bus left me at Chiang
Khong, just across the Lao border from Huay Xai, where I got on the slowboat
down the Mekong to Luang Prabang. The Mekong is not a gentle, lazy river. If it
were a person, it would be a grizzled-faced old man with hands like boot
leather." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 120.jpg" %}

{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 121.jpg" caption="But it’s friendly with its
neighbors, at least. " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 122.jpg" %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 128.jpg" caption="I’m pretty sure there’s a hut
hiding somewhere on this hill. But as far as the hill is concerned, it’s tiny
enough that there may as well not be. " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 132.jpg" caption="Arrived in Luang Prabang. It
looks different from anywhere else in the world. I think you could show me a
picture of just about any street in the city and I’d be able to tell that it
was a Luang Prabang street." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 131.jpg" caption="It, like Chiang Mai, is full
of temples.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 133.jpg" caption="But of course there’s other
stuff, like markets. Several of them, in fact; this one is the morning market."
%}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 134.jpg" caption="These cages each contain two
little live birds. You take them to a temple and let them free. I don’t know
what it signifies, but it seems like a really quaint, interesting ritual. " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 135.jpg" caption="Now that I know how to cook
fish, this looks delicious to me.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 139.jpg" caption="I think this is a place where
they were carving Buddha statues.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 143.jpg" caption="There were a few peculiar
little things about Luang Prabang. This guesthouse seemed like they must’ve
named it with a phrase randomly picked from their English textbook.
Unfortunately, when you say it out loud properly, it’s less funny because it’s
more like _taat-sa-pone_." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 145.jpg" caption="And they fly Communist
sickle-and-hammer flags all over the place. This one is next to a rather
capitalist-seeming bar." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 148.jpg" caption="And here’s the bamboo bridge
that they rebuild every year.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 149.jpg" caption="I climbed up Mount Phou Si in
the middle of the old town, where they have their most visible and (I think)
most meaningful wat, Wat Chom Si. All along the path up were Buddhas from
various days of the week (or with other names), in different poses, none of
which lore I understood." %}

{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 150.jpg" %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 151.jpg" caption="Saturday Buddha." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 152.jpg" caption="Prabang Phoutthalawanh,
whatever that may mean, with worshipers." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 157.jpg" caption="And here we are at Wat Chom
Si itself. I didn’t take many pictures because I was too distracted by the view
(picture at [this
post](/2012/02/04/se-asia-iv-luang-prabang)---I’ve
decided not to duplicate here any pictures I already posted)." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 162.jpg" caption="A sunset seen from a
Mekong-side deck restaurant is one of the better experiences this life has to
offer." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 164.jpg" %}

{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 166.jpg" caption="Down below the restaurant
were kids playing in the water. Those boats are the same kind I traveled in
from Huay Xai." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 167.jpg" caption="The place is magical, I tell
you." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 185.jpg" caption="I took a “minibus” from Luang
Prabang to Vang Vieng. It turned out to be a minivan. To cope with Lao roads,
every driver takes along some good luck charms---for instance, lotuses made of
folded Lao money." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 172.jpg" caption="This picture and the next few
are why karst topography is awesome.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 180.jpg" %}

{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 181.jpg" %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 184.jpg" %}

{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 190.jpg" caption="Besides karst, I also saw a
clutch of kids getting out of school." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 197.jpg" caption="Apparently I didn’t actually
take any pictures in Vang Vieng; I don’t remember if I kept forgetting my
camera or if it was refusing to turn on or if I was too demoralized by the
bacchanalia around me. So this picture is from a few days later, when I got to
Vientiane. It’s a pretty modest capital city, and I’m not sure what this
building is, but it might be the most ostentatious thing in the city." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 198.jpg" caption="I was gratified to note that
there were kids wandering around on its front steps." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 201.jpg" caption="There’s also the Wat Si
Saket, with several thousand Buddha images. Each of those little cavities on
the wall has not one but two tiny seated Buddhas in it." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 206.jpg" caption="After some intensive
bus-riding, I got to Phnom Penh, and in the morning went to the Chœung Ek
Killing Fields. This was one of the biggest killing fields, but by no means the
only one. Yet even just here the brutality was devastating even to view from
over thirty years’ remove. Each of these pits, I believe, was a mass grave." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 208.jpg" caption="In the glass box are bones
that were found when they did a comprehensive clean-up of the site some years
back, having already dug out all the mass graves. But people are still finding
bones even now, and when they do, they pile them on top of the box. There was
another box like this full of victims’ clothes. I was pretty sure I saw a scrap
of clothing along one of the paths in the pile of dirt, but I didn’t pick it up
to put it on top of that box." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 209.jpg" caption="The sign on the right says,
“Please don’t walk through the mass grave!” The sign on the left says: “Magic
Tree… The tree was used as a tool to hang a loudspeaker which make sound louder
to avoid the moan of victims while they were being executed”. To clarify, the
sounds being amplified were propaganda songs glorifying the Angkar and the
Khmer Rouge, and when they say “avoid” they mean “drown out”. In the last stop
on the audio tour, there’s a recording of what this would’ve sounded like when
mixed with the drone of a Diesel engine that would’ve been running nearby---the
last sounds victims here would’ve ever heard. It was *haunting*." %}

{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 215.jpg" caption="Back in the city, I went to
Tuol Sleng prison, where people were kept before going to Chœung Ek. It used to
be a high school.

In each of these rooms is an exhibit about what happened
back then." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 213.jpg" caption="For example, in here are
pictures of the people who made all the death happen.  Appropriately, the
pictures have been defaced, presumably by people who lost family or friends. "
%}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 216.jpg" caption="In this room are farm
implements that were pressed into service as killing tools. " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 227.jpg" caption="Unfortunately, I didn’t
really take many pictures, or any good pictures, of the parts of Phnom Penh
that aren’t given over to gloom and death.  Those are of course far more
numerous, but I wasn’t as prepared to find them, I suppose. At any rate, here’s
a group of people celebrating Chinese New Year, who I witnessed as they came
out of a building, finished dancing animatedly, and then packed up their stuff
and got on a truck to go to the next place that needed a Chinese New Year
celebration." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 230.jpg" caption="I went to a riverside walk
lined with flags from every country in the world and had beer with a friendly
Belgian girl while watching the cars go by on a main city thoroughfare lining
the river, and yet the only thing I took a picture of there was this sign that
says enigmatically, at the bottom, “Mr. Toilet Public / Funded by the World
Toilet Association, Republic of Korea”." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 232.jpg" caption="I left Phnom Penh and arrived
in Siem Reap. This was probably the most well-kept temple I saw during my whole
journey. Its courtyard walls were covered with these very well done
bas-reliefs." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 235.jpg" caption="Dozens of them.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 238.jpg" caption="Inside the courtyard was a
building housing two Buddhas---a typical seated one, and this one that’s
apparently been sinking into the ground under its own weight since it was made
long ago out of a legendary monk’s canoe’s hull." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 242.jpg" caption="As far as I can gather, these
lotus petals each say the name of a donor and how much they donated. For
example, at the very end, you can see that this donor gave US$10. (They use
different numerals in Cambodia. Their 1 looks like a 9.
[Here](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/45/Khmer_numerals.png/180px-Khmer_numerals.png)’s
what they look like.)" %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 244.jpg" caption="The next day I got to Angkor
Wat. The sun rises behind it.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 251.jpg" caption="There are tourists aplenty.
" %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 252.jpg" caption="The outside walls have these
tremendously detailed bas-relief stories.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 255.jpg" caption="I don’t know the story, but
whatever it is, it looks like these carvings tell it pretty well." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 250.jpg" caption="And at length.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 257.jpg" caption="Opposite the carvings is the
jungle.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 258.jpg" caption="It’s been bouncing light onto
these carvings and columns for centuries.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 260.jpg" caption="What the carvings’ corridors
look like from outside.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 263.jpg" caption="Here’s another story,
apparently about a god with many heads wielding a tremendously long battering
ram with the help of about a hundred soldiers." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 264.jpg" caption="There’s a stupa in the lawn
of Angkor Wat.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 267.jpg" caption="On the stupa offerings are
left for the Buddha. A monkey gladly accepts them as his proxy." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 268.jpg" caption="On the left is that same
stupa. This is a view of one of the several entrances to the temple." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 270.jpg" caption="They left nothing
undecorated. Every column is adorned with, at a minimum, this much carving." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 271.jpg" caption="More carvings.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 276.jpg" caption="I got farther into the temple
and eventually got to the top, or at least as high as anyone’s allowed to go.
It’s pretty high up." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 277.jpg" caption="But the giant lotus flowers
are still higher up.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 278.jpg" caption="You might not have realized
how big the lotus flowers are. Consult this picture while viewing the previous
one." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 283.jpg" caption="Cambodia has some of the most
amazing-looking trees I’ve ever seen. They look like something that exists in
fairy tales. This gate between Angkor Wat and Angkor Thom had some good ones
growing nearby." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 284.jpg" caption="Here’s the thoroughly
disassembled temple of Bayon.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 285.jpg" caption="It has faces everywhere." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 286.jpg" caption="Everywhere." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 290.jpg" caption="While I was at Bayon, I found
someone wearing the most aggressively nonsensical “English” shirt I’ve ever
seen. " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 291.jpg" caption="Another excellent tree." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 295.jpg" caption="A lizard living in the ruins
of Preah Khan." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 296.jpg" caption="It looks like it should be
collapsing on you at any moment." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 298.jpg" caption="And in plenty of places, it
actually has." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 299.jpg" %}

{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 302.jpg" %}



{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 304.jpg" caption="Now trees grow through the
old walls and rubble.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 306.jpg" caption="Trees that can only exist
because of the incredible vigor of the tropics.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 309.jpg" %}

{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 314.jpg" %}



{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 322.jpg" caption="And now, getting away from
temples, here are pictures from my trip to the Tonlé Sap. This is what it looks
like to live in a floating village. The term is pretty literal." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 324.jpg" %}

{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 325.jpg" %}


I think this may be a general store of some sort. Or maybe the people who live
here are just packrats.


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 331.jpg" %}

{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 318.jpg" %}


Here’s the view from the deck of the restaurant that Graeme and I got to
on the local teenagers’ boat.


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 317.jpg" caption="These are the alligators in
the tank there that Graeme was unafraid to swim with. Though he wasn’t swimming
in this tank, but rather in the Tonlé Sap itself." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 320.jpg" caption="And here are the alligator
skins they had hanging there.  " %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 321.jpg" caption="One of the kids who went
around letting people hold his snake, then asking for a dollar." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 333.jpg" caption="Before we leave Siem Reap,
here’s the view from my hostel’s roof restaurant." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 335.jpg" caption="Lastly, back in Bangkok.
Here’s the Chinese market. Or rather, a tiny portion of it." %}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 337.jpg" caption="You can get every
miscellaneous kind of goods here, including things you can’t even figure out."
%}


{% include fig.html src="SEAsia 336.jpg" caption="Or, should you prefer, you
can get a lantern or a stuffed hand or some useful breasts." %}

* * *

That’s a weird place to end these pictures, but hey, I’m doing it
chronologically, and that’s where I finished my trip. The only other
things I did after this were walk back to Khao San Road and find a minivan.
And, I guess, come back to Korea and continue living my life---but it seems like
that hardly counts, since everything was so lively there.

Anyhow, I still haven’t written about any current events, but I’ll
get to it next blog (not counting the one about patterns). For now, enjoy
these, and if you now look at the Chinese market and wish I’d gotten you
some breasts or hands or a Jem Hook, I apologize. I don’t know when
I’ll be able to get back to the market again. But I do hope it’s
someday.
