---
title: Get a Job
date: 2013-07-18T07:51:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2013-07-crowduck-get-job
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2013/07/crowduck-get-job.html
categories:
  - philosophy
  - bad culture

---

“You know, the time is coming when you’re going to need to get a
job.” “Have you been thinking about when you’ll get a
job?” “You know you’re going to need to get a job one
day.” “So, where does getting a job come into all this
travel?” “I think you should start thinking about getting a job
soon.” “So when are you going to get a job?”

Yes, I know I’ll need to get a job.  But please, continue to be patient.
There’s more of North America that I haven’t visited yet. And this
is the one part of my life where I can do this. I specifically cultivated these
circumstances. I saved up a cushion of money during a whole year in Korea
(during which, incidentally, I *had a job*). I learned how to live out of my
backpack. I mentally adjusted myself to long weeks spent far away from familiar
things. I have no idea when I’ll be able again to create this confluence
of circumstances and give myself the opportunity to experience all the things
there are to experience out there in the world. So I’m not keen to give
up before I’ve done everything I want to do.

The way I get harried, you can tell that the old idea of the Protestant work
ethic is still alive and well. There’s one thing I can think of that will
make a job necessary for me, and that’s my eventual running out of money.
I’m not particularly close to that. My Korean cushion (augmented with a
bit of money I’ve made selling Walleye—the font, I mean) is still fluffy.
And I travel on practically nothing. I am the raccoon. I sleep in the woods and
I eat the garbage. I live wherever there’s a spare bit of resources that
I can put to good use, and wherever there’s something that a curious
animal needs to explore. My idea of an absolutely reckless splurge is to spend
$50 in a day, in a continent where most travel guidebooks will tell you that
you probably need to allot about $120 a day for your budget. While I was in
Europe I got by on an average of maybe three or four dollars a day. The way I
travel, I could probably stay on the road for years before I finally ran out of
money—and by then, I’d have been doing it long enough that I could
probably use newly gained knowledge to transition to traveling for absolutely
free. 

But I get jabs from all sides that imply, subtly or strongly, that I somehow
*need* to get a job.  I’ve heard you can survive for three seconds
without blood, three minutes without air, three days without water, and three
weeks without food. It’s as if everyone is nervous because, at profound
risk to my life, I’m breaking the natural law that you can only survive
three seasons without a job. 

I know the technicalities of it. I know that someday I might need to show
someone a résumé, and they might think it’s odd that I traveled the world
for a year and a half without an income. I know that I’ll be more
appealing to landlords or on mortgage applications if I show that I have a
history of working a steady job.  It’s just that I think overcoming those
obstacles will be easier than it would be to live with the indissoluble
dissatisfaction of knowing that I cut my travels short while there were still
things in easy reach that I really wanted to do. I can show the employers and
the landlords my college transcripts and my year of working in Korea, and
eventually I’ll have other things to put on my résumé to show off too. In
fact I’ll have years to put more things on that magical list. But right
now is possibly the last big gap I’ll have for traveling freely for years
or decades to come. And I’m young and being a raccoon doesn’t
bother me. So by all logic, I need to seize this time while I can.

And anyhow, compared to what I’m doing right now, getting a job
doesn’t seem particularly exciting. Or philosophically fulfilling.
Here’s where I get philosophical. Nature is the ideal I think humanity
should be aiming to live up to, and a job seems unnatural to me in every way.

I’ve thought for a long time that the concept of a job is a bit dirty on every
side. What does it imply? Well, first it implies participating in the money
economy. Money is a deeply unnatural thing. You don’t see beavers getting paid
per tree they chew down (according to diameter of course), or ants bringing
scrip to the queen’s representatives for rations. The amount of money you have
is the number of shares you own in the destructive system of civilization. Let
me explain that. Civilization destroys the planet—you can see that by looking
around you, or if you really need it hammered home, visit [Seymour, Indiana, on
bike](/2010/11/lessons.html) like I did.  Okay, given that, why does it destroy
the planet? Not just for the rush.  It’s because destroying the planet is
profitable. All the companies that destroy the planet are doing it with money
that came from consumers or taxpayers, and they’re making a killing doing it,
very literally. If you spend money, chances are very good that it’s going to a
destructive corporation. If you spend it at the gas station, the route is
extremely direct.  If you spend it at a family diner, it takes a little longer,
but a lot of your dollar is probably going to a megalithic food distributor
that pays pesticide companies so they can make third-world small farming
families dependent on their genetically engineered crops and so on.

You have to be extremely careful with money to keep it from being used to
destroy everything that matters to humanity. No one usually is. Normally money
gets used for things like these: 

*Paying the rent*—which validates the landlord’s right to own land.
Owning land is a disturbing concept, and it’s only been around for a few
hundred years. In indigenous cultures the concept of selling land would have
seemed as bizarre as selling your own name. You didn’t have the land, the
land had you. An Indian said in a song, “I long for the days when the
world had four corners… when you would ride to the horizon line with wind
in your hair, and would never hit a fence.” Get your horse into the
fields now and count how many fences you can jump before a farmer calls the
cops on you.  But this land-owning thing has swept the entire globe and now you
have to go to Mongolia to find that much land that’s allowed to own
itself like it always has.

*Entertainment*—which, if you can buy it, is probably either the product of a
brewery and not good for you, or the product of Hollywood, which is a whole
sordid cultural story that I don’t want to get into, and is also not good
for you (or anyone).

*Buying groceries*—which makes you go on thinking of food as something that
gets bought, instead of something that grows. Buying food at Walmart finances
the desolation of farmers and land everywhere and is among the most disastrous
things you can do with money. But even if you buy your food only at
farmers’ markets, you’re still falling short of what nature wants.
Even the best farming involves telling nature it had better do what you say,
not what it wants to do. Living off the land without forcing it to bow to you
is possible. Scientists have found that areas of the Amazon where humans have
lived have much denser populations of human-edible species than you’d
expect from random chance. The rainforest is like a farm for these people, one
that gives more per acre than any wheat farm could hope to, but a farm
that’s intelligent and complex and doesn’t go against the grain of
nature. The changed balance of plants there is just the effect on the forest of
having humans in the area, the same way that widely dispersed berry seeds are
the effect of having berry-eating birds in an area. Nowadays we call that
“permaculture”, although at one point it was just called
“life”. It’s what it looks like when humans live with nature,
and it’s been done before and it’s being done currently.

As an aside, here’s what [Ran
Prieur](http://www.ranprieur.com/index.html), one of my favorite thinkers, says
about money. 

> What we call the economy is only one particular economy,
> characterized by: 1) command by corporations, artificial superhumans defined as
> having no compassion, only the drive to increase their own ability to dominate.
> 2) growth, or the escalating transformation of the life of the Earth into dead
> artifacts and the tokens of ability-to-dominate, or “wealth.” 3)
> employment, a disempowering social arrangement in which humans do commanded
> hyper-specialized labor all day in exchange for tokens which they trade for
> necessities and entertainment, neither of which they know how to provide for
> themselves, but which are provided by other commanded laborers who they
> don’t even know.
> 
> It’s hard to imagine a more satanic system, and in its absence we would
> build different economies, almost any of which would be better. Also, when you
> understand what the tokens of wealth are based on, the whole system looks like
> a bunch of kids making play money with which they buy and sell back, at higher
> and higher prices, a bar of chocolate that they’re almost done eating,
> and that was stolen in the first place. Instead of trying to save that system,
> or even trying to destroy it, we should just get the hell out.

Getting a job also generally implies getting a boss. A boss is
a human who, by virtue of having the power to fire other humans, can command
respect even if unworthy and can make demands that must be obeyed.  Not all
bosses are bad or abuse their power, though some do. But more importantly, you
can’t have a normal human relationship with your boss, because of the
hierarchy. The boss can punish you and you can’t punish the boss.
There’s an asymmetry that can’t be gotten rid of. And I say any
system that makes it impossible for two people to act as equals to each other
is a system worth deep suspicion. Nature works horizontally, so the
relationship between creatures is a web, not a pyramid. In nature,
India’s caste system would be impossible, and so would a military that
makes soldiers kill people who’ve never harmed them and never met them.

And finally, unless I’m self-employed with a whole lot of room for
choosiness in my customers and schedule, getting a job also implies doing a lot
of things I don’t want to do. In a very-good-case scenario, I could get a
job teaching wilderness skills to, for example, troubled kids. But even then
there would probably be paperwork, and I might have to teach “company
retreats” now and then, and hearing stories of ruined childhoods would
probably get me burned out sometimes so I’d need to recoup my senses but
I wouldn’t have the time. Not that I would complain if I had such an
incredible job, and not that life is made up of only things you want to do. The
things that you don’t want to do often make you a better person once
you’ve powered through and done them. On the other hand, “no pain,
no gain” doesn’t imply “pain always means gain”.
Sometimes you do something you didn’t want to do and, looking back on it,
you didn’t grow as a person and you’d still rather you hadn’t
done that. [Just ask this guy.](http://www.smbc-comics.com/?id=2964#comic) What
I’m saying here is that it’s a trick to find a job where the good
outweighs the bad, rather than a McJob where you’re a cog and miserable,
and if you can’t tell the difference at the interview desk, your mental
wellbeing for the next months or years might well depend on sheer luck.

Those are the ideas bouncing around my head when someone tells me to get a job.
I constantly size up “having a job” against “living off the
land”, in the purest sense of the phrase. That means living in community,
and living as a part of intact nature. To any human familiar with that and not
with our warped, economic way of life, it would take a very long explanation to
acquaint them with what a “job” means, and if you told them,
“Doesn’t this ‘job’ thing sound great? Want one?”
they’d probably think you’d just told some kind of weird joke.

So when someone says I “need” to get a job, what they really should
be telling me is that getting a job would be a simple and socially acceptable,
though very possibly unsatisfying and probably destructive, way of getting some
things I want. I suppose they could also add that, since we do have private
property in this country, I actually will *need* to get a job if I want to
live somewhere that isn’t a homeless shelter, or a very secretive
structure isolated somewhere in a giant park, like [that guy who lived in a
park in Maine for 27 years and stole stuff to
survive](http://www.bostonglobe.com/metro/maine/2013/05/25/north-pond-hermit-discovered-arrested-after-years-maine-woods/xSXsUlDOQVhqUMb8nkslxN/story.html),
or Mongolia. But luckily, the time that I settle down and get a job will
be the same time that I start needing to pay rent, and I’ll have a job
that I can use to pay the rent. In other words, I won’t *need* to
get a job until I settle down and have the means to find one.

Now, despite all that philosophical stuff, actually what I’m usually
thinking about more when I hear “get a job” is the more basic stuff
I talked about before I got into all that about nature versus civilization and
why money is evil and all that. If you remember back that far, what I said in
that bit was that I don’t need one immediately because I’ve still
got my cushion money and I still want to explore more.

But despite that, I’m actually *not* going to travel indefinitely,
believe it or not. Being a perpetual rolling stone isn’t all that much
more natural than having a job at a corporation and buying food at Walmart, and
I’m aware of it. One of the biggest commonalities among indigenous people
worldwide is a deep connection to the place they live in. A wanderer like me
would be both impossible and scary, perhaps even spiritless, in a North America
settled naturally. Let’s think of prehistoric North America. No
hitchhiking, because there’s no such thing as cars. To get from Ohio to
Vancouver, which I’m about to do, I’d need to know a
continent’s worth of canoe routes and portages, or have months’
worth of walking endurance, and I’d need to know how to live off the land
in a long series of changing ecosystems. It would probably be a fatal journey,
unless I were the über-traveler and knew everything from an instinctual
level.

But why would I want to do it anyhow?  Certainly not to find the right place
for myself, like I’m trying to do now. I would already have been raised
and socialized into a naturally responsible, functional community full of
people I loved. Or, if I had some social problems—maybe I slept with
someone’s wife—I could relocate to some community nearby. It
wouldn’t be necessary for me to run and re-run the continent finding a
place where I could live approximately the way I wanted. Any community would
have the lifestyle that I (I’m talking about me, Nathanael) am looking
for, so all I’d need would be to find one that would accept me, ideally
one with the same language, but if not I’d just learn like tribal people
always have.

Even in the context of the real, industrial North America of today, though,
endless wandering would be dysfunctional. While I’ve been a nomad,
I’ve discovered a lot of things that nomadding stops me from doing. I
can’t build up a group of really good friends and hang around with them a
lot and get into deep, satisfying discussions; most of the conversations I have
on the road are the exact same one about who I am and why I’m traveling
the continent. I can’t eat healthy because it takes too long to pull out
my camp stove and it’s limited in what it can do (I won’t be
roasting a turkey with it), and anyhow I never know quite what food will be
available in the next place I stop. For the same reasons, I can’t eat
*environmentally* healthy either—sometimes it’s McDonald’s or
starve, and I just have to face the factory-farmed beef and eggs and the
pesticide-grown vegetables. And I can’t learn from the land very deeply.
While I was in Korea I dreamt of coming back to the US and living in a forest
in one part of the country for a couple weeks, then moving on to another bit of
forest somewhere else, and in so doing, getting to know the forest like a
friend. What I didn’t realize is that “the forest” is a lot
of different kinds of forest, and I’m going to need to pick one place
whose forest I can really focus on for years and years, and
*then* I’ll gain some sort of expertise worth talking about.
There’s a list of other can’ts, but those are some of the big ones,
and I can’t think of the others right now.

So with all that I’m depriving myself from, why keep going? Well, because
I’m still having fun, and I think when I’ve decided on the right
place, that’ll put a tremendous reward at the end of the journey for me,
enough to assuage all the discomfort and exasperation and can’ts.
Although actually, I think of a certain amount of those things as what makes
the journey an adventure. If you’ll let me define these two words as
opposites for a moment (even though they aren’t really), there’s a
line between an adventure and a vacation. If you’re sleeping in a hotel
room, you’re having a vacation. If you’re sleeping under a bridge,
or in a stealth camp in a forest, or on a kind stranger’s couch,
you’re having an adventure. I prefer to have an adventure even if
it’s not as comfortable sometimes. It makes a way better story later, and
not just to tell to other people, but also to run through in my own memories.

And all of *that* is why you don’t need to remind me to get a job.
I’ll get one myself when I need to, but for now I don’t, and
I’m savoring my freedom to explore and adventure while I can.
