---
title: Thus Far
date: 2014-06-03T04:01:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2014-06-thus-far
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2014/06/thus-far.html
categories:
  - moving

---

Bear with me; I’m going to wax a little rhapsodic.

* * *

I last blogged only two weeks ago. Before I came here, I could take that amount
of time and chew it up like gristle without hardly a thought, with how little
I’d be doing. I might read a book or two, and I’d play a few games
of Scrabble. Since I’ve gotten here, in a time measurement corrected for
inflation and subjectiveness, easily a month has passed, maybe two. Everything
has been happening: just everything, it seems like. I’ve never been to so
many potlucks in my whole life; one after another I’ve attended them and
started meeting apparently my entire cohort of the city’s demographics.
And a massive cohort it is; around every corner there’s another community
house with a garden in the backyard and a bunch of people inside with books
about living off the grid, homesteading, permaculture. On the weekdays
I’ve been taking in a constant gush of information about how to solve the
problems of people who call in with questions or requests about their
medication, eight hours a day pumping and dumping, and in the fifteen-minute
breaks and the half-hour lunch getting to know what kind of people I’m
working with. At home in the evenings I’ve been embroiled in moving into
a new house (already!—but this one will stick), with seven other people who
grow food and host big potlucks and genuinely want to help each other grow. And
even in the times in between, I’ve jumped straight into becoming a
hardcore biker, arisen from my Cincinnati ways of “Eh, I’ll bike
now and then” into a full-on cycle commuter, ten and a half miles each
way, my legs at first sore but now solidifying into pistons. Small wonder that
I haven’t had time to write. 

Minnesota gets a short allotment of summer, and people here seize it and suck
all its juices out; I haven’t weathered a Minnesota winter yet, but I
already feel the urgency to make each warm day count, and in my scraps of free
time I’ve been foraying out and exploring. Last week I sat by Powderhorn
Lake, two blocks away from me, and watched little kids shout excitedly about
ducklings and goslings to their parents in various languages. This weekend I
acquainted myself with the library by reading an introduction to the *Kalevala*
there and noticing the displays of books set out for modern-day frontiersfolk;
then I nearly went to Garrison Keillor’s very own bookstore, Common Good
Books, but couldn’t even get in the door because I was too distracted by
a two-mile-long party starting a couple dozen yards away, and ended up walking
the whole thing. (There were a *lot* of cheese curd carts.)

The woman of the couple I’m living with told me that some people had
statistically determined that Minneapolis is the best city to turn around your
fortunes. Already, among the many people I’ve met, I’ve found some
who might be able to help me learn how to make money off of lettering and
calligraphy, how to find fulfilling work, how to live genuinely, how to do all
those things I’m always talking about. A guy who lives in the house
I’m moving into makes his living off of glassblowing. Passions can
actually find a foothold here. Even literally: another guy who lives there hurt
his elbow recently and is willing to give me a steep discount on the yearlong
climbing wall membership he can’t use anymore. 

I knew there was a reason I came here: these cities are practically tailored to
the measurements of my aspirations. And yet I still haven’t been able to
give myself unqualified and unhesitant to them, because so much of my past lies
in Ohio, and I still keep thinking about it; even while I’m blazing
myself a brand new clearing here to build a house full of what I want most, I
look back to the house I just came from and how much of what I wanted was
already in it and can’t follow. Experimental and sketchily plotted, my
time in this place, but so far it sure is fun.


