---
title: Fragility
date: 2015-08-04T03:36:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2015-08-fragility
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2015/08/fragility.html
categories:
  - new world
  - philosophy
  - civilization

---
One of my idle pastimes these days has been finding cracks. Once you know how
to recognize them, you can see them everywhere. They take a lot of different
forms: A man hoeing back the crabgrass creeping across a sidewalk on my way
home from work. A scissorlift parked incongruously inside Saint Peter’s
Cathedral in the Vatican. The news that the programming language Unix has been
vulnerable for twenty-five years, from the core up, to injection attacks of
far-reaching capability.

The cities we live in, the roads we travel on, the grids we connect to—all of
them, if you inspect them a little, are beautifully rickety things. Please:
come with me for a moment on a trip to the forest. First let’s spend the whole
day walking through the trees, heedless of where the trails are, just wandering
from blueberry patch to blueberry patch, stumbling upon the occasional
saskatoons or bunchberries, getting ourselves good and lost. Look, we’ve ended
up next to a lake, on a little flat patch carpeted with moss and sedge. It’s
getting pretty late. I know more or less how to get us home, but it’ll have to
be tomorrow. I can see you’re not particularly worried either; this will be a
nice night of rough camping, especially once the mosquitoes die down after
dusk.

Did you bring a sleeping bag? Neither did I. Well, let’s build some sort of
shelter; it’s going to chill down tonight. There’s a wonderful downed tree
right here. Could you go gather up a bundle of good-sized sticks, while I dig
up some sand and dirt to bank them with? Excellent, those will do perfectly.
I’ve never done this, but it’s pretty simple: we just make a big row of these
sticks leaning up on the log, until they add up to a roof. Lean more sticks
against the windward opening, and then we’ll chink in the gaps with some dirt.
See, it’s looking cozy already. This couldn’t have taken us much more than half
an hour. I think this’ll make a fine place to sleep. When we leave tomorrow
morning, I don’t think we’ll even need to bother with scattering the sticks
back where we found them. Next time a strong wind comes through it’ll do that
for us, and until then maybe a fox can enjoy this little spot out of the rain.

Now come with me back to the city. We are in a different world.  See this
street? This street has clearly been here forever. It is made of stone: you can
tell that it grew out of the primordial Earth itself. See those power lines?
Like water flowing downhill! They reach inevitably back to their source, and
the electricity in them will hum on forevermore. As bears live in the forests,
so do humans live in the city, and the city sprouts organically and
effortlessly from the accumulation of enough people—and once a part of it
reaches maturity, it can stay where it is for millennia, solid as the day it
arose. When you compare the city to the country, surely it’s the archetypical
example of two different kinds of reality. In one place you’re surrounded by
the forces of nature, and in the other you’re surrounded by the constructs of
humanity.

Well, it sure can feel that way, can’t it? But really, all the world’s
skyscrapers exist in the same world as our little lean-to: the world of freeze
and thaw, percolating groundwater, wedging roots, strong winds, and unintended
consequences. It takes a conscious effort to look at the Empire State Building,
the people going in and out of it every day, the terabytes of data coming and
going on its fiber-optic cables, and imagine that someday it might sit unused,
and crumble, and become a large pile of stones on an island as green as
Manahatta once was. But of course the residents of El Mirador would likely have
had just as much trouble conceiving that the city’s great temple would
eventually be a funny-looking tree-covered heap of stones at a practically
unknown archaeological site in the Guatemalan jungle, reachable only by mule
train.

In a human system, everything seems to be carefully placed according to a
well-thought-out plan. But the thing is, human systems aren’t alive, and that
means that as soon as they’re created, they start decaying.  Picture a city:
houses, roads, water mains, power lines. Now imagine that each human artifact
is surrounded by a bubble of “plannedness”—this bubble is inflated during the
construction process, and as soon as construction is over, the bubble starts
slowly but steadily leaking. Foundations crack, potholes develop, roots burrow
into pipes, concrete softens. And into the little spaces between the shrinking
bubbles creeps nature.  

Up to a modest scale, it’s not too hard to keep a bubble inflated. Every time
you mow your lawn, you blow up the bubble that surrounds it. You can spackle
your own walls and plumb out the blockages in your own pipes, and all the other
little things that make up day-to-day housework.  That’s just a part of being
human, from us all the way to the most industry-free tribes of
hunter-gatherers. The complications start to arise when your entire environment
is built of bubble layered upon bubble layered upon bubble—*and your life
depends on nearly all of them.*

To clean a room requires you and a little free time. To fix a roof requires
you, one or two people who live with you, and some hand tools. To tidy up a
city park requires a neighborhood gathering, including lots of time dedicated
to planning and organizing and getting garbage bags. To fix practically
anything larger than that—say, a potholed thoroughfare or a dilapidated
stadium—requires lots of people whose sole profession is to reinflate bubbles,
as well as truckloads of asphalt, mortar, scaffolding, and fill dirt—and
sometimes it isn’t even possible and you just have to start fresh, or give up
and leave a hole.

Which is all well and good, so long as you have plenty of people and supplies
to go around. But all those people and things have to come from somewhere, and
for a long time that somewhere has been oil wells. Maintenance workers did not
emerge bodily from oil wells, but their salary did. The things we build with
are created using oil power, and sometimes (like with plastic) made directly
from oil. And oil is suddenly getting harder and harder to come by. The effect
is that we’ve started a long experiment to figure out exactly how small we can
let bubbles get before they pop, and how many bubbles can pop before we get
back to where we can keep them all inflated.

And those shrinking and popping bubbles, if you can remember all the way back
to the beginning of this, are the cracks I keep an eye out for. Some of them
are easy to notice.  Seems that bridge collapses are becoming a thing. Internet
outages strike nearly everyone, even in a country that both leads the world in
GDP and *invented *the damn internet. The interstates that cut through the
cores of Minneapolis and St Paul—built there only a few decades ago for
tremendous sums of money and the expense of several demolished
neighborhoods—are assaulted so vigorously by freeze-thaw cycles that, anymore,
they’re only usable for half the year or so, and during the other half they’re
in constant repair, closed or down to half capacity. (And people wonder why I
bike. Bike trails last a lot longer with so much less weight constantly
hammering on them.)

Other cracks are a little more subtle. Computer bugs, for instance. The code
itself doesn’t wither away, but the buildup of layers and layers of other code
on top of it makes the whole system more and more fragile. Most websites could
be taken down temporarily by one or two strategically placed semicolons, and
without enough backups, problems could be crippling. Data centers, meanwhile,
have some of the fastest-deflating bubbles in the world, requiring daily
truckloads of new hard drives (made at great expense and precision) to replace
the ones that routinely burn out in the course of normal operation. Next time
your computer freezes up or borks out, tally up a crack. Outside of computers,
I notice things like flooding low spots, closed-down gas stations in the middle
of nowhere, malfunctioning air conditioners, scaffolding in front of famous
buildings, overgrowth along highways, broken-down cars, and abandoned buildings
far enough away from public eyes that they’re allowed to gracefully crumble and
become filled with plants, first on the roof, then progressing down to the
bottom level as floors collapse.

The feeling I get from these cracks is hard to describe. On one level, of
course, each one means that the skills I (and all my friends) were raised with,
all tuned for a civilized context with paying jobs and reliable infrastructure,
are one bit closer to useless, and we’re one bit closer to finding ourselves in
a spot where we have to learn a lot, quickly, in order to stay alive. But in
other ways, each crack feels like a little victory for my team, which is team
nature. Each crack is an illustration of what the word “unsustainable” really
means, and what happens when you ignore it. Each crack is one step closer to
the world I want to live in, and even though I know the steps are far too tiny
to get the world all the way there in my lifetime, I like to watch the
progression. It’s why I climb those abandoned buildings, and it’s why I point
and laugh as I take the bike bridge over a big traffic jam. I like to see
overgrown lots and weeds coming up through the sidewalk cracks. It’s a slow
conflict between life, which is self-renewing, and constructs, which need
constant help—and even though the outcome is already guaranteed, it’s still
nice to see that life is winning.
