---
title: 'Land Search #1: Lyndell and the Driftless Zone'
date: 2015-11-28T23:39:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2015-11-land-search-1-lyndell-and-driftless-zone
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2015/11/land-search-1-lyndell-and-driftless-zone.html
categories:
  - homesteading
  - photos

---

A newsletter was mistakenly delivered to our mailbox because a previous Sprout
House dweller had forgotten to change his address. It was the *Land Stewardship
Letter*, from the [Land Stewardship
Project](http://landstewardshipproject.org/)—a project whose name I knew
already. For a while this summer, I’d been asking everyone I knew who was
involved with farming or the country in any way whether they knew of some way
for poor young people to find land they could live on. Our former housemate
Maddy works on a farm, run by a guy a little older than us who grew up in
Mexico, named Eduardo, and at a picnic with everyone from Eduardo’s farm this
summer, I asked her about finding land.  Eduardo had found his farm through the
Land Stewardship Project. And that’s how I heard about it.

Misty, though, was the one who looked through the *Land Stewardship
Letter* and found the ad. In the middle of the newsletter was a section
called “Land Wanted/Land for Sale”, and in amid the listings for big giant
farms and places in the several-hundred-thousand-dollar range, she found this: 

> Lyndell [*last name left out*] is seeking a farmer to join a 22-acre
> operation in Southwestern Wisconsin’s Sauk County. Lyndell is looking for
> someone to buy into this produce, herb, certified kitchen and free-range
> chicken operation. […] The arrangement is 50/50 shares for five
> years—after that the new farmer can take over complete ownership.

At first it sounds a bit bland and standard. But what’s this about taking over
the farm after five years? And Sauk County—that’s in the Driftless Region.
Currant’s brother has started a permaculture project in California, but he told
Currant that if you’re going to stay in the Midwest, the Driftless Region is
the place to go, because there are good people there, who genuinely care about
community, and farming well and ethically, and caring for the land. At the pig
butchering, I asked about the Driftless Region, and a woman there confirmed
everything Currant’s brother had said.

Misty called up Lyndell a couple weeks ago, and when I came home later that
day, she told me that after talking to him, the only reservation she had was
that nothing is supposed to work out as perfectly as Lyndell’s arrangement
looked like it would. He’s in his fifties and very interested in permaculture
and more natural ways of living, and when Misty brought up our plan for a
community, he didn’t do what you might expect of an older Midwestern farmer and
immediately shrink back and tell us hippies to look somewhere else—in fact, he
seemed interested. The reason he’s looking for some younger farmers, he says,
isn’t so much monetary; it’s that, although he has the stamina of a
thirty-year-old, he knows that won’t always be true, so it’d be best to find a
succeeding generation of farmers sooner rather than later. Succeeding
generation of farmers? Hey, we could be that!  So we arranged to go out and
visit and see if everything was as good as it seemed. And this is the story of
our visit.

The Driftless Region is an island of hilly country in a Midwest mostly
flattened by ice during the last glaciation. The various vicissitudes and
shapes of the glaciers ended up leaving a lobe of land uncovered in what we now
call the Wisconsin–Minnesota–Iowa tristate, and now it’s full of pocket valleys
covered with forest and dotted with little towns that time and agribusiness
forgot. When we drove through the towns later that night, we may have seen more
Amish buggies than cars.

Lyndell’s land is one hillside of a pocket valley, with three acres of field
sloping down to the bottomland and a little creek, through Lyndell’s rows of
beets, carrots, sweet potatoes, squash, kale, and other things that I never did
ask him to list. You come into the valley on a gravel road that sprouts off
from an unlined, narrow, paved road, and then hook around to the right, to look
back out into the opening of the valley from a flat clearing on the hillside
where Lyndell has been building himself a house. 



{% include fig.html src="IMG_1670.jpg" %}

He welcomed me and Misty to the house and poured us cups of milky-oat tea.
There are two houses, he explained; he started building the first one, and then
his neighbor called the county inspector on him because it wasn’t up to code.
He decided to just start a second building to be the house, and transform the
second one into a general-purpose other-building, with a produce-cleaning
station, a kitchen for baking things to sell at the Dane County Farmers’ Market
(seventy miles away in Madison), an accounting and computer-using office, and a
vast root cellar. The first building is banked into the hill; the house, a
sturdy, concrete-walled structure, is perched on the hillside. It’s perfectly
tuned to Lyndell’s life: a thick, rubber roof to keep out radio waves because
he’s electrosensitive; a roof with a ventilated attic for drying out milky
oats, which he grows for the health benefits from the tea; thick walls well
suited to a zodiacal Ox like him who values what’s long-lasting. We drank the
milky-oat tea, clear and green, and it not only tasted great, but also just
*felt* healthy.

Once he’d shown us around the buildings, he took us up on the hill for a tour
of the land.


{% include fig.html src="IMG_1671.jpg" %}

Just above the house and into the woods, there’s an old abandoned wagon road
that takes you past a few apple trees that Lyndell’s planning to graft with new
stock, and leads you to this old cabin. He didn’t build it, but when he had a
twenty-something couple stay on the land this summer, this is where they lived.
He found them through one of those sites that lets people find farms to spend
some time on, WWOOF or WorkAway or HelpX, and had high hopes that they’d stay
on with him and steward the land into the future. But they turned out to prefer
lounging in a hammock-chair and drinking liquor over growing crops and helping
build houses, and they left after a month. Lyndell doesn’t know how the old
school bus got there, but it’s clearly been there for a long time and not going
anywhere soon. 


{% include fig.html src="IMG_1672.jpg" %}

We climbed up past the bed of the old road onto the higher reaches of the hill.   



{% include fig.html src="IMG_1674.jpg" %}

The forest is young and full of skinny, teenage trees of all sorts, 


{% include fig.html src="IMG_1676.jpg" %}

watched over by a few older sentinels like this venerable white oak. There are
also stands of shagbark hickories that have been feeding the squirrels;
birches; a couple dozen sugar maples ripe for the tapping; and unnumbered trees
of other kinds. The whole forest is broadleaf trees, with no evergreens in
sight despite the cold winters.


{% include fig.html src="IMG_1677.jpg" %}

We reached a plateau on the ridgeline at the top of the hill, and stopped to
look around and dream about what trees and plants we could invite to grow
there. It could be a wonderful place for a chestnut grove, perhaps first made
up of Korean chestnuts, then replaced slowly by the new blight-resistant
American strains that the [American Chestnut Foundation](http://www.acf.org/)
has finally, after generations of hybridizing and breeding in North Carolina,
nearly gotten to the point that they can be spread around the country.
Underneath them could be hazelnuts and apples and other fruits and nuts.
Lyndell used to belong to the [Northern Nut Growers
Association](http://www.northernnutgrowers.org/), and knows a thing or two
about raising nuts; he told us about the neighbors’ project in the next valley
over to grow black walnuts, and how they haven’t gotten many because they put
the trees too close together. Years back, he was with a group that found a
pecan tree growing along the Mississippi near St Louis, and they had high hopes
back then of growing pecans even farther north than that, perhaps in the form
of “hickcans”, half-hickory, half-pecan.  The ground on this hill could someday
be swimming in mast. 

{% include fig.html src="IMG_1679.jpg" %}

At the edge of the plateau, we found a place that, it seems to me, can’t
*not* be named Meditation Rock. We stood and talked and looked out through
the opening of this valley into the land around, and listened to the distant
echoing bellows of cows. This is a place I could get used to.

Evening comes on early in a valley when the next ridge over gets between you
and the sun. We hiked back down to the house and realized we hadn’t asked to be
shown around the field.

{% include fig.html src="IMG_1681.jpg" %}

In the dusk, during the blurry-photos hours, Lyndell showed us the rows, up on
the hill, 

{% include fig.html src="IMG_1683.jpg" %}

and the hoop houses he’s made out of rebar and plastic pipe, a few thousand
dollars cheaper than the kits you can buy. They’re still overflowing with kale,
as well as a crowd of plants I didn’t know well that he uses for making teas
and tinctures.
{: run-in }

{% include fig.html src="IMG_1687.jpg" %}

And off to the side, the foundations for the henhouse, where the first of the
humans’ animal invitees to the land would take up residence. After them would
follow goats to turn the hill’s invasion of multiflora roses into milk and
cheese, and rabbits who would turn our unused produce and grass into
hasenpfeffer and slippers.

Done with this first shot at getting to know the land, we went back to the
courtyard between the houses and talked for a long time.  Lyndell is a talker,
and told us a lot of stories. He’s been farming since his dad set aside a patch
for him to grow strawberries when he was ten years old. He’s always felt a need
to have a place that feels like home, but over the last dozen years or so he’s
had a hard time finding that place. In the last few years he’s lived on a
couple different intentional communities and poured a lot of energy into
building and farming for them, only to discover that at both places, the
motives of the people at the helm were less than noble, and centered more
around profit than wanting to create a new way of life.  He left disillusioned
and now he’s cautious of anything that calls itself an intentional community,
but he didn’t seem too fazed by our plan that was exactly that, maybe because
we’re pretty clearly not just in it for the money.

Two years ago, he found this land and immediately decided it would be a perfect
place to live for many years to come. He and another person bought it together,
and later he bought her share after she decided country life wasn’t for her,
which is how he comes to be in a driftless little Wisconsin valley all on his
own. He’s worked hard and tirelessly since he came here, and that’s how he’s
managed to not only grow enough veggies to sell in Madison but also build most
of two houses. He always works hard: you have to out on the land, and people
who don’t realize that have found it easy to let him take up the slack when
they get tired and lazy.

We assured him that we wouldn’t do that, and we told him we want to build our
lives around a lot of the same values he’d been talking about: caring for the
land, not letting profits take over the driver’s seat, doing the work that
needs to be done rather than pushing it off on someone else (because someone
needs to take the responsibility and put in the dirt time to learn about the
land).  Across the generations and the city–country divide, we discovered we
had a lot of commonalities. And that was one of the greatest things we brought
home from the visit: there are people in the country with a vision like ours,
and moving out there doesn’t mean moving out into the midst of monocropping,
feed-capped, Monsanto farmers with no interest in our project of bringing
humans and the Earth closer together. We could live there with Lyndell. A
genuine human of the country, living in the land, not on top of it. And we
could be that ourselves.

Misty and I agreed that it would clearly be rash to decide we’re building the
whole community here after a single evening’s visit from just two people. So we
want to come back a few times. And as it happens, Lyndell told us he was
planning to build a rocket stove soon. We offered to help out, and he said that
would be great as soon as he has enough of the house finished that it’s legally
fit for dwelling. (Otherwise his neighbor might call the inspector on him again
if there are guests. This guy wishes he had bought the land when it was for
sale, so he’s being nitpicky and trying to annoy Lyndell away. Not going to
happen—and the inspector’s sick of his calls too.) I’ve always wanted to build
a rocket stove: they’re an amazing piece of low-tech ingenuity, a perfect way
to maybe halve the amount of wood you need to gather for each winter. Misty and
I are both looking forward to it.

{% include fig.html src="IMG_1680.jpg" %}

We all could’ve pushed ourselves to talk for hours longer, but we were getting
tired, and Misty and I wanted to get home at a reasonable hour. So we packed
up, put a gift of beets in the car, said goodbye, and drove back to the Cities,
excited and chattering.  We’d seen a lot to love, and we also had lingering
questions that will have to be answered by more visits. (How much astrology do
we want in our lives? Are we interested in making and selling baked goods that
we know aren’t good for people? Are we sure Lyndell’s standards for hard work
can be met by us, or even by anyone?) We realized that it was ridiculous to
expect that we’d find a place so perfect that it would take only an evening for
us to unequivocally fall in love with it and have zero questions or
misgivings—especially on the first try. And we realized that we’ll need to look
at a lot of different places before we can say that one of them is where we’d
like to spend decades, create a community, and grow old.  

With those things figured out, it seemed like our visit to Lyndell and his land
had gone about as well as it could. Next is visiting more places. We’ve already
got one lined up: tomorrow we’re heading out to an already-started permaculture
community near Duluth on the Lake Superior shore. With each new visit, the
country becomes more real and a more conceivable place to live. In case you
didn’t notice, this is exciting.
