---
title: Oil is cheap • But everyone’s still poor • And our jobs might vanish • But I’d have fun
date: 2016-01-25T18:47:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2016-01-oil-is-cheap-but-everyones-still-poor
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2016/01/oil-is-cheap-but-everyones-still-poor.html
categories:
  - civilization
  - resources
  - deep thoughts

---


2016 has been, so far, what I would describe as “bracing”, and I mean for that
to apply on a range of scales from global on down to personal. My favorite
soothsayer, John Michael Greer of the Archdruid Report, has put up [his annual
round of
predictions](http://thearchdruidreport.blogspot.com/2016/01/down-ratholes-of-future.html)
for this year that awaits us. They include a couple of collapses that would
open up gaping sinkholes beneath the frail global economy: the popping of the
current tech bubble (did you know that Twitter, for all its ubiquity and air of
invincibility, has run losses of over $100 million per quarter practically
since it was founded?) and the fall of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (which can
no longer fund its totalitarianism at these oil prices).

It’s been said that the last person who really understood the world died in
about 1890, but I’ve come to think lately, while reading his voluminous
writings, that Greer may just have taken up that mantle.  But that’s not the
only reason I have to put at least a little stock in his particular predictions
among a world of prognosticators who usually turn out to be not just wrong but
idiotically so. I’ve also been noticing on my own that the world seems very
much to be heading in the directions he’s been pointing.

I live under a rock to some extent, so I’m not the best person to talk about
what the average person’s outlook is on the state of the world and where it’s
likely to be heading. It seems to me, though, that most people, in the US at
least, are still cautiously optimistic that we’ll keep getting more of what
we’ve been getting lately: technological innovation, scientific fixes to our
various problems, and the general appearance of increasing quality of life. The
caution in the cautious optimism has been getting more and more dominant since
2008, especially among millennials, who emerged from childhood into a
smoldering wreck of an economy and were promised a swift return to prosperity
for everyone, but are still waiting for that to come true in full. But for the
time being, people by and large are willing to take it on faith for a little
bit longer that incremental new iPhone models are necessary baby steps on the
way to inventing the holodeck and probably eliminating world hunger, somehow.

From under my rock, though, something I do have a view of is the industrial
sector of the economy, and the mood in that realm is, I think, considerably
grimmer than on the street. The company I work for sells to a few different
sectors of the economy: factories of various kinds, heavy equipment
distributors and manufacturers, research departments, and so on. We’re good at
what we do, so my boss has been trying to figure out why our phones have been
quiet, and the answer, an unwelcome one, turned out to be that the entire
industrial sector of the US economy has been immobile in a hospital bed for
most of the past year.

The main exception, for a while, was the unconventional-oil industry, the one
sector that actually appeared to be making a lot of profit. A lot of hopes and
dreams got pinned on the frackers, all across the US and Canada, including our
company’s, because we invented something they needed. It seemed they had tapped
into a vast, nearly inexhaustible resource, and they had money to fling to
everyone—the working poor willing to relocate to North Dakota or northern
Alberta; the companies that would invent new machines for them to use to frack
more efficiently; the entire economy, really, since North American energy
independence would lead to a new era of abundance, a “Saudi America”.  Five
years down the line, and you can see the companies’ corpses floating in the
water.

What happened is still a source of complete bewilderment or misconception to
most people, so I’m going to try to clear it up based on what I’ve been reading
lately. This is going to be long and go all over the world, but stick with me. 

Let’s start at the beginning. Geologists have known about the principle of
fracking for about two hundred years, but for most of that time it’s been more
of a curiosity than anything. The gist is that a lot of the Carboniferous era’s
trees and algae turned into crude oil, but a lot more turned into waxy stuff
called kerogen, which can turn into oil in two situations: One, you wait a few
geological eras, and the Earth’s heat and pressure do it. Two, you make it
yourself, the hard and expensive way. That’s something about fracking that
doesn’t get mentioned much—most people know it’s harder than sinking a well and
getting a gusher, but I don’t think most people know *why* it’s expensive, or
what the process involves. It’s expensive because it’s a fantastically
inefficient way of getting oil.

First, drill a hole about a thousand feet deep. Be very careful and use the
very best equipment. Now, get yourself some water. You’re going to want a
lot—get yourself a farm of giant water tanks, and you’d better be near a river.
Add chemicals and clay into the water until you’ve got some highly refined and
specific mud, and now it’s time to start pumping: get that water down in there,
and catch it when it comes back up full of kerogen-impregnated sand. Okay, that
was the cheap part, especially if you were near a river. Now you have to take
all that wet sand, dry it off, and then burn spectacular amounts of fuel to
fire it in a hot oven until the kerogen melts off. Only then do you have crude
oil, which you still have to send to a refinery before it’s any good to anyone.
Also, you have a whole bunch of extremely toxic water, which you can use to
give cancer to some towns nearby.

Extraction of conventional oil, the good old-fashioned liquid black gold,
reached its peak in 2005 and has been clawing down the other side of the
mountain ever since then. After a delay of a few years, and aided by the US’s
housing bubble, the *price *of oil finally responded to that situation by
shooting up, to a momentary high of $140 a barrel and a steadier level around
$100. That made fracking suddenly just profitable enough to persuade people to
go to all the trouble. So companies big and small showed the numbers to some
loan officers, and got almost unconditional cash, to sink wells into the ground
in a manic state all over the Bakken Shale and the Athabasca Tar Sands.

Meanwhile, though, everyone else was still reeling from the high prices.
Companies’ budgets had tightened around the world, people had gotten laid off,
production had been offshored to cheaper and cheaper places, companies had cut
on wages by automating, and the economy got itself running pretty close to the
theoretical maximum of efficiency: fewer employees, lower wages (and let’s hope
nothing goes wrong). Working people, a lot of whom had either gotten laid off
or had their hours slashed, got poorer and poorer and bought less and less. New
working people, the millennials I was talking about earlier, realized that
their normal might be different from the last generation’s, and a lot of them
have declined to buy cars and suburban houses. In general, everyone started
holding their purses tightly closed and very close to their chests.

And that’s why oil is so cheap now: we’ve started using less. The market theory
says that should mean the producers start producing less, but it turns out that
oil doesn’t work like that—once you’ve drilled a well, you let that sucker gush
no matter what the price, because it’s cheaper than furloughing your wellmen,
and that means that oil companies are stuck pumping as much oil as they
*thought* we’d use, while we’re *actually* using a lot less, and now they’re
running out of tanks to store all the extra in.  Cushing, Oklahoma, is the
country’s stockpile of oil, and they’re full there, with tankers idling off the
coast of Texas waiting for their turn to offload.

Seems like this cheap oil should reverse all the purse-tightening, but that’s
another thing that doesn’t work like you’d think.  Once you’ve laid a bunch of
people off and you’re still in business, you, the CEO, are kind of inclined to
just keep these new profits, rather than hiring a bunch of new people or
building another factory. So the poor are staying poor.

Alright, but surely that effect will fade as wells slowly go offline, and the
price will go up again, and the frackers will come back? Well, they’ll try, but
by then there might not be enough spare cash in the banks to fund them all (and
the banks will be once bitten twice shy)—and even if there is, the frackers
will run into some more trouble, because they’ve already dug all the easiest
wells, and they just get harder and less profitable from here. Plus, where a
conventional well might give you oil for 30 years, a fracking well is
completely tapped after two, so you always have to be drilling more. At first,
the fracking industry’s breakeven point might be $60 a barrel, but it will
creep up and up, and meanwhile, our entire civilization, which grew up on oil
at $20, will find that it can’t catch its breath. Fracking takes a lot of
money, a considerable fraction of the US’s *total amount* of money, and as it
takes more and more, there’ll be less and less available for everyone else,
until no one can buy the oil anymore anyhow. And at that point, everything will
change. Economies will implode, countries will fracture, factories will close,
stores will vanish, and it will become clear to everyone, worldwide, that the
future isn’t going to look like all the futurists told us it would.

That’s not preventable. It’s already in motion.  Most people either haven’t
noticed or are trying to tell themselves that they haven’t noticed. But I
think, looking back, we’re going to see 2015 as the year when the last hurrah
of the global economy crested and the fracking bubble popped, and 2016 will be
the year when people started really noticing that something had happened.

China has already been taking the lead on ensuring that, with a cratering stock
market and persistent rumors of government interference in all its figures. On
a much smaller scale, it’s thrown itself under a spotlight in my own life. My
company, at the beginning of last year, was looking at a very promising-looking
year, because we’d figured out how to make new heavy machinery work in the
cold: when the EPA put out new regulations, the engine makers just slapped on
little doohickies to stop some of the gunk from going into the air, but these
doohickies are very liable to getting frozen up, which makes your bulldozer’s
engine either refuse to turn on or, in some cases, explode. North Dakota and
Alberta are, well, cold, and all these companies were having to stop drilling
on cold days, and here we were with the promise of solving that problem.

And now none of those companies are buying any of the things we invented for
them, because they can barely afford to keep the wells pumping. (Something like
forty unconventional oil companies have gone bankrupt since 2015 started, and
counting.) It takes a lot of money to invent something, even something simple,
and now we’re kind of stuck with all our money sunk into widgets that maybe no
one will ever buy. And the rest of the industrial economy is in nearly as bad a
shape, so we’re not selling our mainstays either. The upshot is that, at the
annual company luncheon last week, we all had pizza and then got a grim,
sobering picture from our boss of how difficult it might be for the company to
stay afloat, and he asked most of us to start working only four days a week.

Don’t worry about me. I’m actually kind of excited. I started taking a day off
per week last year just to have more free time, but then I forgot and fell out
of the habit. Now I’m guaranteed to have an extra day per week, and I live so
far below my means that I’m not going to be hurting for cash. At least for now,
I’m doing fine. The tricky part, of course, comes if my extra day off per week
turns into five. But even that, I think, wouldn’t faze me too much, and in
fact, it would probably give me a much-needed kick in the pants toward doing
things that have been on my long list of good intentions for almost as long as
I can remember.

Financially, I have enough saved, and our rent here is so cheap, that I could
live for at least year in this house off of savings and dumpster-diving. Of
course, I would be looking for ways to send a little stream of income into the
pot from web design or something else. I now actually have marketable skills,
and it’d be nice to use those to maintain the grubstake I’ve been counting on
for building supplies when (in all likelihood) Misty and I build a house.

But to look at it from another angle, if my job evaporated, I think the result
for me wouldn’t be the traditional depression, it would be a de-stagnation. For
the time that I’ve been at this job, I’ve spent forty hours a week doing one
specific kind of work. I’ve gotten really good at it, but I’ve also been
constantly aware that it’s more than likely not going to be useful very far
into the future.  Meanwhile, there are all these things that I *want* to be
learning to do that *would* be useful as far into the future as I can
imagine—everything that falls under the permaculture umbrella, basically. To
boil it down, if I lost my job, what would happen would just be a realignment
of what I’m trying to achieve with my time. Current alignment: make money to
build a house. Projected alignment: practice how I want to live my life (and
how to do it with minimal money).

The second one actually sounds a lot more fulfilling (especially if you know
me), doesn’t it? So much so that you might wonder why I haven’t quit my job and
dropped out of the system already. There are a few reasons, but the main one is
that I know money is going to be useful for a few things, while we wait for a
barter or gift economy, but I still haven’t saved up quite as much as I’d like
to have to achieve those things, so I’m holding out a little longer.

Another is that I’m still transitioning from the way I’ve been taught to live,
which is money-based. This transition is also the reason that Misty and I are
possibly going to stay at Sprout House for another year.

At last count, I was telling people that we might drop off the grid this
summer, and start living up by Lake Superior next spring. Since then, we’ve had
a bit of a possible change of heart. Not that we don’t want to do that—but we
think it might be good to figure out *who we are* in the context of living off
the land first. Every homesteader has their own unique viewpoint and style. If
we moved onto an existing homestead, though, with established practices, we
might not develop our own—the same way that someone who’s been in relationships
her entire life might suddenly realize, in a panic years down the line, that
she doesn’t know who *she *is.

That’s why we’ve been thinking we might like to stay in Sprout House through
2017\. That would give us a chance to do a lot of land-based things that the
house has been very slowly gearing up for. We’d get to take part in actually
raising the chickens we prepared for. I’ve been thinking about building a
wood-burning cookstove out back from
[cob](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cob_(material)) or something else that
would allow for [rocket stove](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rocket_stove)
principles.  Also, a solar cooker; also, a composting toilet. Not to mention
learning more about gardening. There’s so much to figure out.

As of a few days ago, that plan was fairly well set, but then Misty, Currant,
and I spent the weekend at The Draw, and on the drive back home last night,
Misty and Currant both found themselves catalyzed into wanting to go go go.
Here’s the thing: there are a lot of places we want to visit. We’ve already
been planning to go to several in a row this summer: that Colorado gathering,
Crowduck, Portland, and Currant’s brother’s homestead in northern California.
In the one-year plan, we’d spend a little longer at some of those places, and
we’d go to several others, like the Possibility Alliance (an incredible
permaculture homestead in Missouri that largely boycotts money), somewhere we
could learn alternative building skills, the Boundary Waters, and perhaps even
Latin America. (Those of you who thought I’d completely sated my wanderlust are
going to have to reconsider. Besides, I owe Misty a trainhopping trip.)

What we’re still trying to decide is whether it’d be simplest to just do all of
that in one long swath, and whether we want to leave Sprout House (and fragment
it with the departure of a lot of its housemates) just when it was feeling
especially like a really nice place where we could be comfortable and learn a
lot from each other. We’ll be turning all these considerations around for a
while. Knowing us, we might not even have a final decision until we’re actually
on the road at the beginning of it, but I think we can do at least a little
better than that.

In any case, we’ve had our second taste of homestead life up at The Draw; while
we were there, we got past the haze of amazement at how great it is to live off
the land and got plunked into the hard-work aspect of it, splitting logs and
mucking out the sheep barn and hand-churning butter. Working for a day on that
stuff in the deep snow made my citified muscles ache to a memorable depth, but
rather than turning me off to the whole idea, it just made me look forward to a
time in my life when I’d be fit enough to do this kind of stuff and barely
blink. Misty and I have been starting to do more rock climbing, and we’re
generally getting more physical, after allowing ourselves to become soft and
slothful. This also serves as one of our next big steps on where we want to be
in life.

We’re trying to make most of the stuff we do serve as one of those. Like I said
in a post last year, there’s no time to lose. The continuing long collapse
that’s been going on for years now is reaching critical points that will soon
make it a lot more difficult to live in the old American style where you can
just solve all your problems by throwing money at them. We’re entering a new
era where wits and land skills are going to get a lot more important. And for
our part, we’re learning all we can about how to live in that era.
