---
title: Why I Eat Meat
date: 2016-08-30T06:53:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
legacyslug: 2016-08-why-i-eat-meat
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
redirect_from:
  - /2016/08/why-i-eat-meat.html
categories:
  - meat
  - deep thoughts
  - friends

---

***Note to people who are not Sean Upton:*** *My good friend Sean Upton from my
Korea days has started up a new blog, and a recent post, “<a
href="https://seanuptonblogs.wordpress.com/2016/08/15/why-do-you-eat-meat/"
target="_blank">Why Do You Eat Meat?</a>”, was a little about his recent
decision to be vegan, and a lot about asking meat-eaters why they *aren’t*
vegan. He wrote it two weeks ago, but I’ve finally gotten around to answering.*
{: .prefatory }

*Oh, also, this is the second new post this week, in case you didn’t see the
previous one.* 
{: .prefatory }

Hey Sean,

I’ve actually been wanting to answer your question for a while now. It’s just
that I wanted to give it the amount of answer that it really requires. You’ve
thrown just about every facet of this very large question into your one post,
which means that any answer that’s not going to be just a glib thoughtstopper
really has to be more like a blog post. (This may be why I’m the only person to
answer you so far.)

You started with (and didn’t move far from) ethics. I’d like to start with the
environment, though, because I have to set up some dominoes here before I get
to ethics. Let’s start with a little thought experiment.

Grant for the sake of argument that, in a little internship program set up by
God so He can take some divine vacation time, you have been chosen to be Most
Supreme Ruler of the People of the Entire Earth for a day.  The first thing you
do, of course (besides the naughty stuff, which you’re probably too terrified
to do anyhow, what with the possibility of unintended consequences), is to make
the world a better place by decreeing that everyone is to be, henceforth,
entirely vegan. Let’s go ahead and also say that you alter everyone’s digestive
systems so that we can survive with no problems on a diet without animal
products, and that every livestock farm is transformed instantaneously into a
vegetable or grain farm that produces the same number of calories.

The world rejoices in a surplus of food. First World countries ship their
excess to the starving masses in poorer nations.  Scientists note a slight
downtick in global warming from the elimination of cow-butt methane. Fisheries
the world over make comebacks. You’re hailed as an unalloyed hero, at least by
everyone who’s not bitter about not being able to eat bacon anymore.

So far so good. But what happens a few years down the line? At first humankind,
in the aggregate, eats less food. A percentage of the world’s farms shut down
and appear to be left to turn into parkland for people and animals to enjoy
freely. But soon, people, well, they start having more babies. You didn’t
decree they shouldn’t, so humans behaved like every other species in the world,
and responded to an abundance of food by increasing our population. The farms
that shut down are brought back online. In fact, because population growth has
inertia, we end up needing more calories than we did when we started. And now
they’re almost all being provided by broadacre monocultures. There used to be
polycultures where humans still welcomed diversity of species. Especially in
poor places, because that’s where people couldn’t afford fertilizers and
equipment, so they used, say, chickens to till their soil a little, eat their
pests, and fertilize with manure, plus provide the protein that the people used
to need.  But now there’s no point in a polyculture.

This is a form of Jevons’ Paradox. If you decrease how much people need
something, they respond, reliably, by using more of it. Likewise, if you
decrease how many acres’ worth of food people need, they’ll respond by eating
more food until we’re back to the same acreage, even if they need to make more
people to do it.

So eating less meat, while it seems to be a simple solution to a slew of huge
world problems, turns out to just kick the can a little further down the road,
and result in starvation again, only this time it’s starvation of a somewhat
higher world population. That raises the obvious question of how we got in the
unsustainable fix we’re in right now, where humanity requires so much food. The
answer is not that we have some peculiarly human moral failing that gives us a
bloodlust, nor is it that the inexorability of technological progress has given
us a power to wreck up the environment that we haven’t yet learned the wisdom
to control. In fact technological progress isn’t happening because of some
innate inexorability at all; it’s happening because it’s linked inextricably
with *energy consumption*. The same energy consumption is what allows us to
inflict so much suffering on animals, plants, and all the other kingdoms of
nature alike.

Over the last few hundred years, humanity has tapped into heretofore
undreamt-of amounts of energy—first coal, then petroleum—and the result has
been a mushrooming of the human population. With each new increment of amount
of energy, the result will be more food and more people.  First we create
motorized tillers and harvesters. Then we expand into previously unfarmable
land using gas-powered machines. Then we build transportation networks to feed
people in places like Phoenix and Dubai where they would normally have scarce
options and scarce populations—ultimately increasing demand. Then we start to
synthesize fertilizers and pesticides.  And so on.

Which is to say: the amount of damage that humans do to the environment is not
a result of their dietary choices. Those choices are just a detail of how it’s
done. The amount of damage is instead a direct result of how much energy we
have to burn.

Now I think we can start talking about ethics. Let’s simplify a broad range of
ethical options into two brackets. You can live with nature, or you can live
despite nature.

Living with nature means accepting that nature knows better than you. (Nature,
after all, is getting on for four billion years old, and you, if you’re a
human, are at maximum about a hundred.) It means living within the limitations
it sets, and not trying to tell it, “Yeah, but what if—?” It means, most
fundamentally, accepting that you are a part of nature. If you aspire to
ecological virtue in this kind of society, you don’t need to go too far: much
like most people you know, you spread seeds, help tend the forest like a garden
(which results in more biodiversity and more biomass), and use every part of
the animals and plants you eat, returning the remainder to the land. This is
how most humans have lived throughout human history.

Living despite nature means believing that you are wiser than nature, and that
you can improve on its designs. It means you think the human brain, and human
brains banded together to create culture, have such limitless capacity for
ingenuity that we can solve every problem that exists if we just think hard
enough about it to figure out The Solution. It means, again most fundamentally,
not believing that humans are really a part of nature, but instead separate
beings, living in separate places—cities, generally. If you aspire to
ecological virtue in this way of thinking, your best hope is to *minimize your
negative impact*—which, taken to the logical extreme, implies you should kill
yourself. This way of living came into fashion ten thousand years ago in
Mesopotamia, but really got kicked into gear when the Industrial Revolution
started in the 1600s.

Now let’s examine the track record of these ways of thinking. Societies that
favor the first one have been, by and large, egalitarian, peaceful, and
non-destructive. They have their suffering and their wars, but so do ant
colonies. Societies that favor the second one are marked by a tendency to grow
bigger and bigger until suddenly they find that they have nothing left to
consume, and then crash hard; they also tend to do a lot of destruction to
their surroundings in the process. They are hierarchical, authoritarian, and
warlike (you have to get those resources somehow, and your neighbors are a good
place to start). They have a happy minority in their higher echelons—*psst,
that’s you and me, we’re middle-class and live in some of the most prosperous
countries on Earth*—and just hordes and hordes of unhappy, starving people
supporting that minority.

Veganism seems decidedly to fall into the second way of thinking, and the
consequences from God’s internship earlier bear it out. Veganism supposes that
the way to fix our system is to transcend our primitive reliance on meat and
become a more enlightened form of humanity that’s just that one step closer to
perfection. It’s a nice image, but when you look at the details, it’s not much
more than an image. It’s based on a simplified equation: *meat = death = bad*
(and you can multiply all terms by –1 to attain *veganism = no death = good*).
Nature is considerably more complicated than that equation. Nature is not an
obedient machine. When you push on one part of nature, it pushes back in other
places, and it’s to our repeated and embarrassing peril that we forget this.

Replace a cow with a field of soy: kill many more mice than you would have. In
the comments on the “[Honest Pig
Farmer](https://web.archive.org/web/20151229124224/https://stonybrookfarm.wordpress.com/2012/07/29/the-grapple-of-ethics/)”
article that you linked (which is available, like most defunct links, on
[archive.org](http://archive.org/)), a bright person called GCW crunches
numbers and finds that killing more mice than the pasture-raised cows you
replace is an inescapable fact of broadacre tilled farming.  *Veganism ≠ no
death*.

Keep more animals alive: population explosions lead to worse catastrophes down
the line. There’s a memorable thought experiment in environmental activist
Lierre Keith’s *The Vegetarian Myth*. A naive vegan commented to Lierre once
that Africa would be so much more peaceful for all the giraffes and hippos and
lions if people would build a big fence, then put the predators on one side and
the prey animals on the other. Lierre was in too much shock at the ignorance to
respond to the person’s face, but in the book she explained how this would play
out: the predators would all eat each other until there were none left to eat,
and then they’d starve to death; the prey animals would overgraze their whole
food supply, then starve to death. *No death ≠ good* (and incidentally, *no
death ≠ no death*).

Similar, though less dramatic, dynamics play out when you remove animals from
farming altogether and put them in game reserves. And, let’s not fail to
mention, also when you remove them from old-style polyculture farms and
sequester them in CAFOs, which I do not in any way condone, and which I
monetarily boycott. The way out of this problem is to move *toward* nature, not
away from it, and that means: pastured hogs in working polyculture or
permaculture farms, especially if they’ve gotten to graze in an orchard;
catching and eating fish that were able to participate in an ecosystem (catch a
pike and you remove an apex predator—more little fish!); and yes, grass-raised
cattle, which, if I understand right, you unaccountably seem to think are a
bookkeeping trick and are raised in CAFOs after all.

That’s because death is a part of nature, and accepting that you participate in
nature means accepting that death will result from your human life. Refusing to
accept that you participate in nature doesn’t exempt you from participating,
but it does ensure that you’ll do so more clumsily and leave a broader swath of
destruction. And I think this gets to the crux of what you were driving at in
your post. You asked over and over again: Why, meat-eaters, why do you support
this killing, if you know it’s wrong?

Asking like this, you appeal to ethics that, you assume, are already settled,
in a debate where you have identified and gotten on board with the side that
has the correct answer, while the rest of us are still in denial or haven’t
figured it out yet. (That tack, by the way, also gives your post a dose of the
sanctimonious tone that is one of the things lots of people hate about vegans,
and which stops them from listening to whatever good points you do have:
something to bear in mind if you decide to continue trying to convince people
to go vegan.) What you don’t seem to have allowed room for, or perhaps even
conceived of, is the possibility of a coherent system of ethics where killing
animals *is* a moral action, where you can kill an animal and not feel, deep
down, that you are doing something indefensible. I have such a system of
ethics, and I’ve ended up in it not because I needed some way to justify the
unjustifiable act of eating meat, but because I try at all times possible to
predicate my ethics on nature, not on human ideals.

I have killed and helped eat a deer. I have killed and eaten many fish. I have
been party to the killing and eating of a rabbit. And not only do I not feel
like a murderer, I *treasure* those real, intimate connections to the ecosystem
that gives life to all of humanity (while most of us do our best to ignore it
and mechanize it). I dream of a time when I can get *more* of my food from
animals and plants whose lives I’ve witnessed, whether briefly or closely. This
means enough to me that I intend to live most of my life on a permaculture
homestead learning how to do it with skill.

Since I’m not on that homestead yet, I live day-to-day through a combination of
mimicking it where I can (by buying from farms that raise their livestock in a
way that improves the environment); not supporting the factory-farming industry
monetarily (that is, I go dumpster-diving a lot, and my house has a pretty good
freezerful of dumpstered meat); and, on the rare occasions when I get a chance,
going hunting myself.

Of course, maybe I’m not a typical case.  Much of your audience, quite likely,
really is still in denial or hasn’t figured it out yet. For those people, I
hope for awareness of the ecosystems that support them and how they can live
with those ecosystems rather than trying to deny their existence. I hope that,
for those who care about the environment, they can move away from the
self-defeating mindset of “do less harm”—the one that logically leads to
suicide—and into the much more useful mindset of “do more good”. The society
that we live in is going to fall, one way or another; that much is inescapable.
But as it does, someone is going to have to pick up the pieces and go on living
in the ruins, and the more people who are “doing more good” instead of “doing
less harm”, the better off our descendants and the societies they live in will
be. Really, authentically doing more good requires a lot of work, far more work
than going vegan, a lifetime’s worth of work. But it’s better for the person
who does it, better for the people who live with them, and better for the
planet we live from. So let’s do that. 
