---
title: 'Let’s Catch Up: Feral Futures'
date: 2016-07-27T05:05:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2016-07-lets-catch-up-feral-futures
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2016/07/lets-catch-up-feral-futures.html
categories:
  - adventure
  - interesting people
  - Feral
  - gender
  - interesting people
tags:
  - The West

---

You’d think that after two months of writing nothing more than a tongue
twister, I’d be spilling over with things I wanted to tell about. But it’s
actually been sort of hard to pick out any one thing that I’d like to write on.
Lately, for the blog, I’ve felt less interested in writing the narrative
details of my life, and more interested in laying out a few of the cool
directions I’ve been thinking in recently. That’s probably because, as long as
I’m spending most of the days of my life occupied with a full-time desk job,
there doesn’t seem to really be much narrative-of-my-life to get into;
meanwhile, I’ve been reading such interesting books and putting together some
of the puzzle pieces of the world.

But I’ll get into those things later, and hopefully they’ll actually be
interesting to you. Over these two months when I didn’t write, there actually
has been some narrative building up. I haven’t been behind the computer over at
the office nearly as much as usual, because I’ve been out and about, and one of
the places I’ve been is somewhere I remember a lot of people asking questions
about.

This year is the second year I’ve gone out to Colorado to meet the summer
solstice from up on a mountain at Wild Roots Feral Futures.  Misty, Currant,
and I got up at four in the morning one day in the middle of June and spent the
entire day and some of the night burning through Iowa and Nebraska on the old
US Routes. Though it’s not strictly part of the event, I think there’s
something to be said for the ride out there. There is a highway, US-30, that
parallels Interstate 80 a few miles to its north. It’s slower, dustier, and
more pockmarked than its four-lane little brother, but traveling on US-30 is
much better for the soul. It allows you to discover that Nebraska actually has
towns, and people, and character. Driving on I-80, you could be forgiven for
thinking that the built environment of Nebraska consists entirely of
Kwik-Trips, McDonald’ses, and Burger Kings. On US-30 grain elevators reach over
the road to make each town a gateway deeper into real Nebraska, and you’re
required to slow down for broad-streeted downtowns and ramshackle family
restaurants and grocery stores.

We ended that day sleeping in a park a few dozen miles outside Denver, and the
next morning we funneled ourselves into the city, where Currant had to stay a
couple days for a cousin’s wedding. Misty and I weren’t invited to the wedding,
so after some food and a nap and a ride out to an onramp, we continued on our
own. That’s right, we did our first couples hitchhiking, and I’m happy to
report that it went fantastically. We waited less than five minutes for our
first ride, which came from a big-wheel pickup driven by a guy our age who
grows weed. Our second ride took less than a minute: at a stop light, we got
picked up in a huge camper truck plastered with cow decals—the Moothership. The
guy behind the wheel, RT, somewhere in his 30s or 40s, explained that he sells
farmers what’s more or less a vibrator for mother cows. After cows calve, they
get listless and stop eating and get health problems. but a little bit of
vibration to the base of the tail triggers them to get up and do something,
which usually ends up as going out to graze. Rides came pretty easy all day,
and everyone liked us and we liked them.

So, from my limited experience, I have to conclude that couples hitchhiking is
awesome. Misty likes it too, and we might do a bunch more. After a few more
rides and a night sleeping next to a river in a town park, we got driven
directly to the trailhead for 2016’s Feral Futures, at the end of a gravel road
that took us through a long, green, winding valley at least 8,000 feet above
sea level.

You have to walk to Feral Futures. Each year it’s in a different place, closer
to or farther from the trailhead, always somewhere in the National Forest in
southwest Colorado.  Down out of the mountains, this corner of the state is a
hot, shadeless land.  But up here, cold brooks crash down from the snowcaps,
and the walls of the valleys are carpeted with aspens, pines, willows, and
meadows full of cinquefoil and dandelion and yarrow. The air is thin and dry,
and fallen trees don’t rot as often as they desiccate into kindling, but
there’s life and green.  We walked a mile and a half or so along the side of
the valley, and emerged into a long, broad meadow, where a painted sheet hung
up in some trees welcomed us to Wild Roots Feral Futures.

This year was the eighth Feral since the beginning. Currant has been to three
of them and says each year has a noticeably different vibe to it. There’s a
core in common to all of them, though—a sort of ethic or philosophy that brings
people out here in the first place. You come to Feral if you’ve been raised in
the good old Western civilized way but somehow it just never took. You may have
been given all the philosophical and material furnishings of a middle-class US
life, or maybe you haven’t and you’ve spent some of your life working to get
them, but in any case, once surrounded by them, you took to knocking on them
one by one, and discovered to your dismay that they were all completely hollow.
And you couldn’t just grin and bear it and live with them. You have realized
something that only a minority ever really grasps: that though a lot of people
believe in such large, floating abstractions as “The United States of America”
and “the global economy”, and though that belief gives those abstractions some
power of their own, they are, at the root, made out of nothing but what nature
gives us, and the more abstractions you put between yourself and nature, the
more problems arise (whether the problems bite you or faraway strangers).

In the US, where we have a culture farther removed from nature than perhaps any
other in the history of the world, such a realization leaves you simultaneously
unmoored and grounded. Unmoored from all the people and systems you probably
grew up with, who are content to ignore the fragility and disjointedness of
that kind of life—but grounded in nature, which continues to be the source from
which all our sustenance, symbols, and world come.

What that means in more concrete terms is that Feral is populated by a lot of
thoughtful anarchists. Which is not a contradiction in terms. There are a lot
of different kinds of anarchists in the world, and it’s to anarchists’ enduring
frustration that so many people insist on believing that the only kind is
high-school anarchists. You know: the kind who skateboard everywhere, wear
black hoodies, and resent everyone who has any kind of power over them,
especially school administration. Theirs is a rebellion with no direction; if
you sat down with one of them and asked how exactly society should be arranged,
the most coherent thing they might be able to tell you is that there should be
no school principals, or that everyone is trying to brainwash us.

Most of them grow out of it eventually, but not always into upstanding
valedictorians or, later, business-casual patriots.  There’s far more diversity
of the human soul than that. Some of them grow from impetuous high-school
anarchists into mature, engaged, adult anarchists.  There’s a whole greenhouse
of different kinds of anarchism, most of them coherent, logically consistent
worldviews that can take your average naive knee-jerk rebuttal—“But there will
always be people who are better at some things, and become leaders, and then
the whole system starts over again!”—and turn it to sorry soggy shreds, then
keep going and build entire new, exciting worlds.

These are the kinds of people who end up at Feral.  Perhaps some of them
wouldn’t call themselves anarchists. It might be because they don’t like to be
classified as anything-*ists*, or because they’re early in the journey and that
word feels loaded still, or because they disagree with the *is* of identity
that says you can describe a human with a word, or because they favor something
a little different from anarchy, but that something is almost certainly not
modern-style nation-states. All of them share the principle of insisting on
determining their own lives.

When Misty and I arrived at the shady edge of the meadow where the main fire
ring was built this year, there weren’t very many people yet. The main
organizer was there, and a few people we didn’t know. We spent the afternoon
and evening getting our camp set up and then sitting where we could see what
was around us so we could let it soak in. We had come a long way and left a lot
of city noise and grime behind, and we still needed to really arrive. That
requires sitting and allowing the outside to come inside you. After dusk the
forest’s warmth all bled off through the thin air and cloudless sky right into
space, and we were surrounded, at long last, by real quiet. Not silence; the
quiet is inhabited by wind and mice, toads and water. But quiet: the absence of
the thrumming, arrhythmic, inescapable pulse that pervades the city.

The next morning we helped get the rest of the camp set up. At Feral, of
course, there is no real leader who directs everything. There’s a core group of
organizers, but what they mainly do is decide where the camp should be and
offer suggestions based on their years of experience with successful
gatherings. They won’t tell you to do stuff; they’ll write the stuff that needs
to be done on a list on some cardboard and stick it on a tree, and then let
everyone know at morning circle that there’s a list of things that need to be
done. And everyone in camp will pitch in and do them, from people who are here
for the first time up to the organizers. I went out into the forest and
collected some firewood. Misty set up water to purify, or maybe helped cook a
meal.

Eventually, morning circle began. When the time is right each day, morning
circle coalesces almost on its own: some people confer, then all call out
“CIRCLE!” And everyone comes and forms a big circle in the main area.

First everyone goes around introducing themselves with name and pronoun. I’d
say a minority of us used our birth names, and at least a quarter of everyone
asked to be mentioned using pronouns that don’t match their sex assigned at
birth. (Most were *they*, *she*, and *he*, but another one popped up that was
new to me: *fey–fem–feir*, which apparently comes from the [Radical
Faeries](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radical_Faeries) movement—something I’d
never heard of.  A few people gave it as an option but allowed *they* too.)
Currant decided to take a trial run of changing their name to Willow, so we
used that name all week, and it stuck, so now that’s their name.

Next there’s an orientation. Someone explains how to filter water. Someone else
explains the use of the shitter, which is a trench dug in an out-of-the-way
place and managed well for odor using wood ash. Another person asks for
volunteers for cooking and dishes.

Finally we get around to people telling what workshops or conversations they’d
like to facilitate that day. These could be as formal as a several-hour-long
workshop on felting, or as freeform as a single question followed by some
brainstorming and conversation from everyone around. Last year there were a lot
of hard-skills workshops: tanning a hide, practicing archery, learning the
names and uses of the plants around the area (like osha and potentilla).

This year we tended more toward the conversations. The first event on the
schedule all week was someone who came in to speak: Danny Blackgoat, a Diné
(Navaho) elder who’s been spending a lot of time at Black Mesa. Black Mesa is a
place in the Diné Nation where the government has been trying, for many years,
to evict all the local inhabitants so they can allow a coal mining company to
start digging there. For just as many years, the Diné have been resisting.
They’ve had to fight on all fronts at once: public awareness, politics, legal
challenges, and perhaps most importantly direct resistance—which is to say,
people staying right there on Black Mesa herding their sheep and refusing to
leave when the strongarms come and say they have to. And if they get pulled
off, then they go right back as soon as it’s possible.

For a while there it’s been a standoff, thanks to determined Diné as well as
help they’re getting from non-Native folks like the ones at Feral. Feral-type
people will go down to Black Mesa, stay with a shepherd, and help them herd
sheep. They’ll just listen and do what the elder says. It’s one small way you
can give back if you and your ancestors have been party to the massive land
theft and genocide that’s still playing out on this continent. And it’s a way
to be connected to a tradition that actually makes sense and is a part of its
land—to learn from elders who have something deep to teach in a time when far
too few people are there to hear. Danny told us about what it’s like at Black
Mesa, and about his life history, in a series of interconnected, rambling
stories that, perhaps, didn’t explicitly make a point, but still somehow told
us just what we needed to know.

A lot of other conversations through the week centered around this same kind of
direct action. Things like going to a proposed fracking site and occupying it
with tents so the company can’t drill.  One person revealed that there’s a rule
on fracking sites that no operations can take place if there are non-employees
around—which activists exploited by running around in there, whooping it up,
shutting down operations, and forcing the police to come in and arrest them.
Some people came to Feral who had been on the road doing direct action for
years. There was a lot of advice, and the underlying theme that if you call
yourself an environmental activist but you don’t go out and help stop the land
from being exploited directly, your activism is pretty cheap indeed. (Mine has
been pretty cheap. Eventually I intend to correct that.)

A conversation might look like this.  Monsoon mentioned around morning circle
that she’d like to talk about Hoop rewilding. In the afternoon, when it looks
like the last activity has wound down, she gets a few people who’ve been
waiting nearby to all yell together: “HOOP REWILDING!” A few more people
straggle over, and Monsoon starts talking.

She tells us that the Hoop is a name for the old nomadic circle that used to be
traced out unfailingly, year after year, by the Native nations of the Great
Basin. They would stay for a while in an area where a good edible root, like
coush, was growing. They’d collect a bunch, eat some, and bring some along with
them to the next place, where they’d collect a different plant and plant the
coush—and so on through the year and the land until they ended up back where
they started. They ate, the plants spread, and they all lived happily. But now,
the hoop is broken; the nations that used to live there have been fragmented
too much to walk the hoop. Now a new subculture, with roots in transgender
communities and a catalyst who calls herself Tranny Granny, has been taking on
some of the duties of the Hoop—using cars and titanium digging sticks while
these things are available, but trying as hard as possible to keep the old
traditions alive through the planet’s current turmoil.

There were a few workshops on harder skills, too; for example, a quiet but
intense and knowledgeable person named Tomlyn led the felting workshop I
mentioned, where Misty and I both made really cool hats, and got our hands
cleaner than they’d been all week, because felting involves a lot of soap.
There was also a workshop on how to resist riot police, which featured a series
of exhilarating role-plays where some people were the activists and others were
the cops trying to separate us as we linked arms.

But above all, besides all the “formal” workshops and conversations, there was
a kind of community: an ability to chat and just *be* with other people who
could see the world as we did. We could have the conversations we’ve been
craving all year. During the rest of the year, each of us has ideas that simmer
below the surface. We’d love to talk about these ideas with someone, because
one of the ways ideas mature best is through talking, through putting together
different viewpoints. But the kind of ideas we have are born from a way of
seeing the world that most people we know don’t share. If I were to try to have
a chat with someone in my family, or even someone in Sprout House, about a
question like “What kind of ancestor do you want to be remembered as?” the
conversation would be likely to get hung up on first axioms. I think the future
and its people will look one way—energy-scarce, full of people slowly building
up a culture that knows how to live with the Earth on the Earth’s terms—and the
other person thinks, perhaps, that the future will look a lot like today, only
with slimmer iPhones and legalized gay marriage worldwide.

That kind of community may sound like a small thing, but it’s not. It’s a force
strong enough to draw us in from all the way on the other side of Nebraska’s
grain elevators and the car-vanquishing mountains of Colorado, year after year.
It’s not just community and friendship, it’s freedom. A freedom of the mind and
spirit both, the kind of freedom to roam far and wide with your favorite ideas
that’s otherwise only available, dimly, in dreams.

During Feral I gave tattoos to three different people. I ate food around a fire
three times a day. I learned about places and events that I always hoped
existed. I took meditating hikes out on the trails, and personally thanked an
aspen for being an aspen. I got reacquainted with an old college friend who
lives near Denver and loves to write constantly and make pancakes. I talked
with an anthropology Ph.D. student about many different ways of returning to
something like a natural way of living. I received encouragement from Danny
Blackgoat to learn a Native language. (Misty asked: “What do you think about
non-Native people learning a Native language?” Danny said: “The more the
better!”) I spent time with people utterly unlike me in many ways—transgender,
nomadic, repeatedly in trouble with the law, desert-dwelling—yet with the same
core values.

At nights, we kept the dinner fire burning, and usually ended up with some
people playing guitars or games. On the night of the solstice there was a huge
fire in the field where they could make it burn bright and tall, and most of
the camp celebrated the shortest night of the year with music and revelry (some
of us slept—I did). We looked up at the stars and took walks, and we listened
to the world around us in a way we usually either can’t or just forget to.
Being able to do that, and being around so many other people who are doing it
too, is what—far beyond any simple workshops or speakers—makes Feral such an
irreplaceable week of the year. We’re working on making our entire world like
Feral, but that’s a long project; for the time being, we’ll have to make sure
we get out there whenever we can.  
