---
title: Further, Exhaustive Thoughts on Meat
date: 2016-10-19T23:47:00+00:00
author: Chuck
layout: post
slug: 2016-10-further-exhaustive-thoughts-on-meat
blogger_blog:
  - chuckmasterson.blogspot.com
blogger_permalink:
  - /2016/10/further-exhaustive-thoughts-on-meat.html
categories:
  - meat
  - deep thoughts
  - friends

---

*Again a **note to people who aren’t Sean Upton:** I’ve been having a bit of
back-and-forth with Sean, a good friend of mine from my Korea days who’s
recently gone vegan. He started it with a post called <a
href="https://seanuptonblogs.wordpress.com/2016/08/15/why-do-you-eat-meat/"
target="_blank">“Why Do You Eat Meat?”</a>, and then I wrote my previous post,
<a href="{% post_url 2016-08-30-why-i-eat-meat %}" target="_blank">“Why I Eat Meat”</a>;
Sean came back with <a
href="https://seanuptonblogs.wordpress.com/2016/09/01/why-i-still-dont-eat-meat-a-reply/"
target="_blank">“Why I Still Don’t Eat Meat”</a>—and that brings us to here.*
{: .prefatory }

Hello again Sean, 

I’ve put off blogging for the last month and a half or so, and
I must admit that it’s not because I’ve been taking all that time formulating a
response to you but because I was avoiding it, since I knew I’d have to do some
real thinking, and some figuring out how to express things.  But I’ve finally
put aside the time, so here we are, back on the question of meat. I didn’t
quite expect it to turn into this novel-length missive, but, well, that’s what
happened. You asked for it, you got it, I suppose.

This new post of yours embraces considerably more depth and nuance than the
first one. But it still seems to me that you’ve gotten yourself stuck looking
at the present moment, and forget that a solution that solves this moment’s
problems won’t necessarily solve the problems of the future. I agree that
veganism is a brilliant solution for the problem you seem to have posited as
the world’s problem *ne plus ultra*: that is, how to feed the current world
population of seven billion with less of the devastating environmental impact
that humanity currently wreaks. But I have much less faith that it’s the
long-term solution that you see it as.

Something that I try to keep in mind whenever I’m trying to predict the future
(or to understand the present and the past, for that matter) is that everything
is systems. I’m talking about systems in the sense of systems theory or Donella
Meadows’ book *Thinking in Systems* (which, I should note, I haven’t actually
read yet, though I’ve learned about systems theory in a piecemeal way from many
other sources). A system is an organized group of interacting parts that come
together to form a coherent whole. A cell is a system, and a lake is a system,
and a human is a system, and an ecosystem is, rather obviously, a system.
Almost any system you care to name, any system that’s larger than subatomic, is
made of a nested series of other systems, each of which plays their part in
making up the whole: the system of you is made up of your circulatory system,
your nervous system, your digestive system, and so on. One of the big things
that systems do is interact in complicated ways that give their components
roles and interdependencies that are far from obvious if you look at them on
their own.

It’s in this sense that I try to understand the global food system. At this
point it’s fair for you to wonder how this differs from your own way of seeing
all this, since of course you understand that actions have consequences. The
difference is this: the way you’re trying to understand the global food system
focuses on the value of one or just a few variables. In this case you’re
looking at two variables that could be seen as different ways of looking at the
same thing—the amount of resources that go into feeding the world, and how much
of the world’s population successfully gets fed. In your analysis, minimizing
the resources and maximizing the number of people who aren’t hungry is the
criterion by which you judge whether your plan is successful.

In the way I look at it, on the other hand, minimizing the resources and
maximizing the number of people fed are not the goals. If it were, veganism
would fall unacceptably short of perfect, and I would settle for nothing less
than an all-potato diet for the world, with liberal use of vitamin supplements.
In my view the goal, to borrow from Wendell Berry’s indispensable essay
[“Solving for
Pattern”](http://www.seedbed.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/09/Berry_Solving_for_Pattern.pdf),
is the *health of the system*.

Berry contrasts two approaches to making agriculture the best it can be. In the
reductionist approach, the agronomist works out ingenious new ways of
increasing the yield of grain crops, and keeping them free of pests. When the
agronomist has enough resources at their disposal, we end up with a system like
today’s vast expanses of monocrops, which are extremely successful at getting
more calories per acre, at the cost of destroying the ecosystem.  Meanwhile,
the farmer who takes the health of the farm and of its community to be the
highest good will behave very differently. Since integrity and independence are
a big part of the health of the system, the farmer will focus on meeting their
own needs with minimal borrowing from the outside.

I want to clarify with an example, and then I promise I’ll start moving a
little more perceptibly toward the point.

Imagine there is an island, a little island somewhere in the southern Indian
Ocean a dozen or so degrees north of Antarctica. There are people here, and
their only source of food is an endemic species of holdout woolly mammoths. The
only plants that grow on the island are eucalyptuses and grasses, both inedible
to the humans but delicious to the mammoths.

One day, a traveler arrives from a distant land, bearing strange items they’ve
never seen before, and one of these is a packet of corn seeds. The stranger
explains that the seeds grow into a plant that can be eaten by humans—no, not
mammoths, humans, a point she must explain several times—and eventually the
island people accept her gift and begin to cultivate it.

Well, whereas before everyone had just enough to eat and no more, and it was
important not to waste a single part of the mammoth, now there’s plenty of food
for everyone and to spare. Corn gives ten times the calories per acre that
mammoths do. People celebrate. Corn is life.

Forty years later the traveler’s grandson comes back and finds that there are
ten times as many islanders. And, strangely, finds that now they are back to
having just enough to eat. No corn is wasted. The same amount of the island’s
land is dedicated to food, but where before it was mammoth grazing land, now
it’s carefully gardened corn.

So: *what has actually changed on the island?* Can we say that things on the
island are *better* because more people are being fed for less land per person?

Mammoth Island shows us that the *amount of resources* and the *number of
people fed *are not the point. Never were. The point is all the other details
of how the islanders live. Now that there are ten times as many of them, are
they building too many houses for the eucalyptus forests to grow back? Are they
using up the island’s supply of freshwater faster than the rains replenish it?
Are they letting their fields lie fallow long enough for mammoth droppings to
give back the fertility that the corn took up? (Probably not, to be honest.
They’ve never farmed before—they have no clue what they’re doing.)

This is why I tried to point out last time, and why I’m going to keep
stressing, that our ability to feed the world is not the point. Rather, the
point is: *how* do we feed the world, and *how* does the world then live?

Veganism has, if I remember right, been estimated to be able to feed at least
ten billion people. The thing about that is: if veganism were embraced by the
whole world, it *would* feed ten billion people. And then we would have ten
billion people. Does the world have enough resources to deal with ten billion
people? Feeding them is only the beginning. If veganism feeds ten billion, how
do we house ten billion with forests already getting cut down? How do they get
around if oil scarcity is already playing havoc with the global economy? How do
we dispose of their waste when cities’ sewer systems worldwide are already
overloaded and exporting more toxic waste than can be dealt with?

And that’s if we ignore the issues that come with changing the world’s food
system over to a vegan mode. At first less land will be used, but as on Mammoth
Island, it won’t be long before we’re using as much land as we were before, or
pretty close to it if we discount the rocky places that tractors can’t reach.
If we’re only growing vegetable crops on all that land, where is the fertilizer
coming from? The Haber-Bosch process guzzles up a lot of fuel, and world
potassium is expected to peak in not too many decades. Among other issues that
come from the transition itself.

It’s quite fair for you to point out that it’s not as though we’re avoiding
these issues right now, either. We’re gaily polluting our waterways, poisoning
and eutrophying the oceans, and feller-bunchering down old-growth forests
worldwide to maintain the world’s current range of lifestyles, and we’ve got
other food system problems besides—manure buildup at CAFOs, overfishing, and
all the rest.

But those problems, I’m pretty sure, would be outmatched handily by the
problems of a world with ten billion vegans. As Wendell Berry articulated, the
one-variable approach to “improving” a complex system is the kind of solution
that leads to a “ramifying series of new problems,” and the only thing that
these problems have in common is that all of them have spread to be outside the
system they arose from. Whereas a holistic approach to solving a system’s
problem, when based on a deep enough knowledge of the land and executed by
someone who’s living on the land to receive its feedback, leads to a “ramifying
series of solutions” and you end up with a system that is healthier for all
humans and animals involved.

So far, though (as you may be shouting), I haven’t offered much to tell you why
I’m so confident that including animal products does work to improve the health
of the food system, besides “It’s a systems thing, you wouldn’t understand.”
(If one of the big lessons of systems theory is that systems are almost
impossible to describe accurately from first principles, then these thought
experiments I keep throwing out are no more useful than a bunch of statistics.)
Well, here’s my reasoning: history. More specifically, because the food systems
of practically every human culture known to exist or to have existed, through
history and prehistory, included meat. There are vanishingly few possible
exceptions. You could argue that some sections of present-day India are an
exception, but it’s an exception riddled with caveats and even after all those,
they eat loads of yogurt and paneer.

When you come across a fact like this, you have to stop and wonder: Why? If
veganism is the ideal food system, allowing the most nutrition per person from
the least land and with the added benefit that you never once have to think
about pig shit or get your hands bloody disemboweling anything, then why have
so many human cultures been so eager to ruin the whole idyllic arrangement with
meat? Have poor Eastern European subsistence farmers taken the time and money
to build themselves barns just because it’s a long-lasting fad? Do Papua New
Guinean families build pens for pigs outside their huts because they think it’s
important to get their youngsters accustomed to killing in case they need to go
to war?

Obviously not. They raise animals because it makes more sense somehow than
eating a vegan diet.  But if veganism offers so many more calories per acre,
what makes meat more attractive anyhow?

Because we’re talking about a complex system, the answer, perhaps a bit
frustratingly, is “There are a lot of reasons of various importance.” But let
me try to point out some of the big ones.

Perhaps first and foremost, there’s nutrition. Now at this point I’m going to
have to contradict the dietitians you’ve been reading, or at least your
interpretation of them, and this is an interesting enough point that I’ll go
into some detail. Basically: animal-based foods have every bit as much place in
a healthy diet as plant-based ones. We all know that plants are important for
health. There are a lot of vitamins and minerals and fiber and other goodies in
there that we can’t be healthy without. And plants are pretty much the only
game in town for your daily carbohydrates.

But meat and dairy… compare the fat and protein to plant-based foods, and
there’s a clear winner. Beans are the best option for plant proteins, but they
have a lot of carbohydrates in them that get turned right into glucose by your
body, as if we needed more sugar in our diets. They also have a lot of
defensive chemicals in them that the plants put in there to stop you from
eating them; this is why beans give you gas and make you feel bloated. That is
not a clue that they are doing good things to your body. Most cultures that eat
beans have worked out that you need to ferment them to make your body accept
them, but that still leaves the carbs. And as for fats, well, try eating both
local and vegan, and you’ll find that your options for fats dwindle pretty
quickly, which is a problem because your body needs fats. You’re down to corn
oil, soy oil, and canola oil (I’m not actually sure that the crops for all of
these are grown in meaningful amounts over there in England)—all three of which
are not remotely healthy: all of them invented within the last fifty years,
produced exclusively in big factories via alarming industrial processes, and
abounding in the omega-6 and polyunsaturated fatty acids that make your
digestive processes choke up. If you’re fine with imports, there are olive oil
and coconut oil, which are decent replacements for some of your animal fat, but
are pretty resource-intensive to produce. There’s a reason ancient Jews used
olive oil to anoint the blessed: the stuff is precious if you’re making it
yourself.

I should briefly address the article you linked me to, [“Wheat Eaters or Meat
Eaters”](http://www.viva.org.uk/resources/campaign-materials/guides/wheat-eaters-or-meat-eaters).
Its science and rhetoric are both pretty dodgy, and it derives most of its
punch from showing all the differences between humans and obligate carnivores.
It shouldn’t come as a surprise that there are a lot of differences, because
humans aren’t obligate carnivores, we’re omnivores, as any grade-schooler can
tell you. Woodvine does point out some ways that we’re different from some
other omnivores; I seem to recall seeing charts that cut the other way in other
books, but that’s not what I want to focus on right now.  I want to look at
this argument that because most of the great apes are vegetarian, we should be
too. This is much like saying that because all of the panda’s ancestors were
meat-eating bears, the panda’s bamboo diet is clearly not healthy for it.
Humans have been hunting for a long time—two million years.  There’s a
well-supported theory that the human brain could only evolve into what it is
because we were able to eat meat: high-energy-density, fatty foods.

One of the more laughable things in Woodvine’s article is the suggestion that
we have a natural revulsion to meat, as opposed to our natural affinity for
sugar. (I can assure you, I have an affinity for both.) If our body is really
primed to seek out carbohydrates exclusively, why does eating them exclusively
make us so sick? Excess carbs are the elephant in the room as diets are
concerned; everyone knows they’re unhealthy, but we keep blaming fats anyhow.
There’s fascinating history behind why that happened (the processed-food
industry was heavily at play, especially in this country), and there’s also
very good evidence to suggest that our carb-heavy diets are the source of a
very large portion of the ailments that afflict industrialized humans, from
heart disease to cavities. 

Anyhow, that’s the food angle, and I’ve only filed off the tip of that iceberg.
For more information and to corroborate some of what I just said about carbs
and health, you can pick up practically any book that has to do with the paleo
diet, but some are better researched than others. Nora Gedgaudas’s [*Primal
Body, Primal
Mind*](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9571633-primal-body-primal-mind) is
pretty deep if sometimes a bit alarmist; one that’s possibly better if not as
broadly focused is Natasha Campbell-McBride’s [*Gut and Psychology
Syndrome*](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/978904.Gut_and_Psychology_Syndrome),
and there’s also the classic [*Nourishing
Traditions*](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117835.Nourishing_Traditions),
which is quite good and not saddled with some of the ridiculousness that’s
gotten caked onto the paleo movement since it became big. Probably the most
vivid of them all, though, is the section of Lierre Keith’s [*The Vegetarian
Myth*](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6396542-the-vegetarian-myth?from_search=true)
that deals with nutrition and health.  I recommend the entire book.

The other ways that meat fits into a healthy food system and human culture are
numerous. Sheep give wool, pigs till the soil for free when they root, chickens
control pests in your garden and fertilize it with highly nitrogenous poop, cow
manure is still a coveted fertilizer, goats can get rid of those invasive
rosebushes that you can’t keep under control, and on and on. A healthy farm
acts a lot like a natural ecosystem, and animals, if you’ll allow me to state
the obvious, are a part of natural ecosystems.

Now this point makes it possible to open the door to what you said about farms:
that on a farm like the one I’m describing (a “cool, organic” one),
“[e]ssentially you’re still keeping thinking and feeling creatures in captivity
for the sake of nuggets and burgers,” and that “this is still unnatural.” On
the contrary, I would say that giving animals a place to do all the things that
I described just a moment ago is as close as a human can get to living with
nature and letting it do as it pleases. What does a grassland goat do in the
wild that it can’t do on a farm plot? What does a bison do in the wild that a
bull can’t do on an open range? And animals die in the wild too, by predation.
In the case of the farm, the difference is simply that the human is the
predator.

A farm that lets nature do its thing with minimal interference is an example
not of subjugation but of symbiosis. Without the animals, the humans would
starve after the first potato crop failure (that resulted from lack of
fertilizer) and have to relocate to the city; without the humans, the animals
would starve come winter because they didn’t put up any hay because they can’t
work a pitchfork with those hooves.

Michael Pollan had a similar insight in *The Botany of Desire*, where he
pointed out that, though we think of the endless cornfields of, say, Iowa, as a
human-dominated space, you could equally well think of it as a *corn*-dominated
space; he makes a good argument that as much as we domesticated corn, it has
also domesticated us. It’s a well-worked-out analogy, though only covered in a
single chapter. But I have a book in mind that examines this interdependency
between humans, plants, and animals in spectacular detail, and not only
explains that meat makes sense on a global scale, but runs the numbers, and the
numbers behind the numbers, to show *how* it makes sense. It’s called *Meat: A
Benign Extravagance* by Simon Fairlie, and I’ll link you to [this review of
it](http://www.campaignforrealfarming.org/2011/02/%E2%80%9Cmeat-a-benign-extravagance%E2%80%9D/)
because I can hope to do no better job of introducing the book to you. If you
want your mental picture of how the food system works on a whole-system level,
and why it is the way it is, to be expanded, this is the book to read. (And as
a bonus, it’ll probably be even a little bit more relevant for you than it was
for me, because Fairlie is English and writes a lot about England’s food
system.)

So, when you have small farms with closed loops, you fairly well have to use
animals to complete those loops, even if you don’t eventually eat them (but
what will you do with all those extra eggs? Feed them to the local foxes? And
how about the proliferating piglets?). Hence a “series of ramifying solutions”:
from the extensive monocropped grain farm where biodiversity and diversity of
human cultural practices are alike banished (a cornfield is cultivated much the
same way in any nation, excluding a traditional Mayan *milpa*), to a series of
farms where an orchestra of species work together for the goal of life for all
of them.

Spectacular!  But how do we get there?

This is the last point of yours that I want to address. A lot of why veganism
looks like the best solution to you is that it’s the only apparent way that we
can feed, without cruelty, all the people currently in the world. I’m willing
to grant that point, more or less. But the thing is, I think feeding everyone
in the world is a doomed proposition.

The world population currently stands at somewhere around seven billion. In
1900 that number was around 1.6 billion.  Why do we have all those extra people
now? Not a very hard question: it’s because we were able to farm more. And we
were able to farm more, mostly, because of fossil fuels. Tractors, grain silos,
railroads (which made more far-flung land arable because you no longer had to
pack out the crop via horses), motorized tillers, all of it. This also allowed
us to use up our land’s fertility to dangerous levels, but luckily we also
figured out a way to eat oil: that’s the Haber-Bosch process that I mentioned
earlier, fixing atmospheric nitrogen into fertilizer with the help of very hot
gas-powered flames.

Now we’re at a point where most of the 7 billion people we feed are fed thanks
to oil. And peak oil has already arrived. So something needs to change. But
vegan farming requires inputs of fertility from Elsewhere, and while it may be
less fossil-fuel-intensive than a CAFO, vegan farms are never going to be both
fossil-fuel-free and as productive as claimed by their advocates. Either you
put over a lot of the area to animals who help you with the fertility, or you
buy fertilizer.

So if the current system doesn’t work, and the vegan system doesn’t work, what
then? Hunting is out, as you noted; not enough deer in the forest to keep us
fed for long. Free-range farming like I’ve been describing? It’s good, but
without oil it’s only going to feed as many people as it was feeding in 1900.

Well shit, then, we’re out of options, aren’t we?

The only option left is the one that no one wants to talk about: the population
going down, code for “lots of people die”.

But I think we need to start talking about it, because I think it’s going to
happen. I don’t look *forward* to it happening, because it looks like it’s not
going to happen gracefully, but I think it’s *going* to happen. And if we start
talking about it, well, then maybe we’ll discover something interesting: that
even though lots of people are going to die, that won’t necessarily be as
ghastly as people imagine. Or, to quote John Michael Greer’s [excellent essay
on the
subject](http://thearchdruidreport.blogspot.com/2014/08/dark-age-america-population-implosion.html),
“Just as it didn’t take vast public orgies of copulation and childbirth to
double the planet’s population over the last half-century, it wouldn’t take
equivalent exercises in mass death to halve the planet’s population in the same
time frame.” (I encourage anyone to read that essay to get a good picture of
what a population decline of that magnitude could look like to a person living
through it.)

So to answer the original question of “How do we get there from here?”, the
hard part is going to happen whether we like it or not. The less hard part is
where a huge number of people have to start learning to farm, especially in the
most industrialized countries. And how we get *there* is by learning to grow
our own food, as many of us as possibly can. If it’s at all possible, get out
into the country and start growing there, because the countryside needs more
young people who can learn the wisdom of the old people who remain, and take up
their mantle.

Only by looking at the whole system, and living inside our solutions until we
solve the problems inside the solutions, and understanding more deeply, can we
hope to create a food system that works. Veganism is a simple solution—but food
is a complicated problem that doesn’t admit of a simple solution. And thus it
does what most simple solutions do when you apply them to a complicated
problem: it creates more problems. Some problems are foreseeable, some would
take us by surprise. But all in all, though it’s important to eat plenty of
vegetables, it seems clear to me that a globally vegan future would lead us
down a road paved with good intentions into a situation even more precarious
and unsustainable than the one we’re in right now. And that’s saying something.

*(By the way, I’m going to leave the subject of meat alone for a while, as
I’ve pretty much had my fill of writing about it for the next several months.
(This post kept me up until 5 in the morning last night. I just barely got to
bed before sunrise.) I’d like to write about some other stuff.  But I’ll still
answer comments on this post, and there’s always video chatting. For now, I
just hope you’ve found this useful, and that anyone else who reads this does
too.) *
