---
title: Moments
categories:
  - Year of Transformation
  - photos
  - trains
tags:
  - Cascadia
  - Great Plains
  - Minnesota
---

One more thing: I have some pictures.

I'm not going to really attempt to give the full context for everything you see
here, because this would end up as a dozen pages of story with a few photos
sprinkled in. But I'll at least try to explain. Unless it's more fun not to.

### Here we go

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0176" caption="The Possibility Alliance is
an intentional community we visited in northern Missouri. It would take a book
to fully describe the place and the project, but for brevity's sake let's just
say that it is what's right with the world. This is their outdoor kitchen." %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0183" caption="In Denver we hung out for
a couple days with Misty's old love Chris---and, what seemed to be almost as
important to Misty as visiting him, if not more so, we got to see Baby Blue, the
van that the two of them rode around the country in to find rocks to climb." %}

### Some trains

All right, so a lot of the pictures I've taken are from trains. Busted. Misty
and I have been learning how to ride these metal dragons. I wouldn't say we're
good at it yet---not that we're unsafe, but we've been having a hell of a time
finding a train that goes where we want it to go. 

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0189" caption="In Wyoming I rode along the
North Platte River. Here, closer to its source, it's not yet the wide, shallow
river of which Bill Bryson says,

> In the middle of [Nebraska] is a river called the Platte, which at some times
> of the year is two or three miles wide. It looks impressive until you realize
> that it is only about four inches deep. You could cross it in a wheelchair.

Up here it has crags and bluffs and cliffs and a clearly healthy supply of
magic." %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0193" %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0198" caption="Later, I rode along the
Yellowstone in Montana. One of my favorite things about riding trains is how
they follow rivers. They have to, because they can't climb anything steep. And
so, often, it's just me and the train with the entire valley to ourselves."
class="topcaption" %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0202" caption="Somewhere in North Dakota."
%}

### Aberdeen

At Feral Futures, our old housemate Willow played a song we hadn't heard before,
which mentions Aberdeen, South Dakota, a place that none of us had ever been,
including Willow. So when a train of mine terminated there, I took the
opportunity to get a little photo documentation. It turned out, unexpectedly,
that Aberdeen is a thoroughly amusing town.

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0203" %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0204" %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0205" caption='"23½ HR TOWING"' %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0206" caption="This dealership's name seemed
maybe even a little *too* on point as cultural critique." %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0208" %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0209" caption="Vape Stars. (No smoking.)"
%}

### Oregon

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0214" caption="We arrived in Portland just
in time to see the famous unicycling, bagpiping darth Vader." %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0225" caption="In Springfield, Oregon, we
found a street." %}

### Pre-clipse

I didn't get any decent pictures of the eclipse. But on the day before it
happened, we cruised around central Oregon with a guy from Eugene who'd picked
us up the day before on his own way to see the eclipse and decided we should
just all have fun and see it together.

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0233" caption="And so we stopped at Smith
Rocks State Park." class="topcaption" %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0234" caption="Where a pillar called
Monkey Face attracts climbers from everywhere on Earth." %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0238" caption="There's one now." %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0243" caption="Sunset the night before the
eclipse. This is where we watched it from." %}

### More trains

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0254" caption="Misty and I rode away from
the eclipse zone in Oregon on a train along the Willamette." %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0260" %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0262" caption="And camped out after making
it across the Columbia." %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0264" caption="To avoid conspicuously
walking along the tracks, we walked along the bluffs." %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0267" caption="Here's one of several
trains of ours that didn't do what we hoped. This aromatic train full of trash
started heading toward Minneapolis from where we camped..." %}

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0268" caption="...but only made it
thirty miles to the dump in Roosevelt, Washington, a real happenin' place that
took a day and a half to hitchhike out of." %}

### ...And:

{% include fig.html src="fast-ore-min-0276" caption="Spotted in Minneapolis."
%}
