---
layout: post
title: "28"
published: true
categories: [friends]
---

I had the best birthday party ever, and I thought you should know. We went to the Drinkin’ Spelling
Bee.

A bar in town, the 331 Club, hosts it every Saturday. Ten bucks gets you a number to wear and a beer
to drink, and for every word you spell right you get another beer. I’ve gone five times now. I could
think of no more perfect way to celebrate my birthday and say farewell to all my friends than to
invite them to spell with me.

I arrived with an undefeated record, 1--3--0. (If the spellers are too good the game’s often called
on account of time.) This time about six of my friends were spelling too, some housemates and former
housemates and some Grinnell friends too. All of them extremely promising contestants. Until the bee
started I just enjoyed being right there in the middle of all my Minneapolis friends, and all of us
happy. Then at 7:00 we started spelling.

The bee was at capacity that night and the room was crowded with sixty spellers and their friends.
None of us was lower than #21 so we hung out and talked while people spelled their easy first-round
words. Then as we started getting called up we would push our way to the line behind the microphone
in a knot and just keep hanging out.

Several of us did better than they expected. Erica got like four rounds in before falling on
*impasto* (some kind of make-up), after nearly deciding not to enter because she thought she was bad
at spelling. Eric got a couple rounds in but then his tongue betrayed him with an *f* in
*sophisticate* that he knew didn’t belong. Best of all was Gabe---meditation leader, linguistics
major, and recently a punk as well, as evidenced by the Miyazaki soot sprite tattoo I just gave
him---who kept going and going into the final lightning round.

I got the Reversal of Fortune hammer brought down on me on *glazier* (a glass fitter). You earn the
rights to the hammer by volunteering to spell your word backwards, and speller #11,
a fifty-something woman, had done that, then used it on me to *force* me to spell mine backward.
Well, *glazier* backwards is *reizalg*, which sounds awesome. Next round I gave the hammer right
back to her and she got hopelessly lost in *cacuminous* (*suonimucac*, having a pyramid-shaped point
on top), but we hugged after that.

Finally at the end it was just me and... Gabe! And let me tell you, the crowd was *into it.* They
knew I’d won before, and I was dressed in a flamboyant plaid, so even though they knew it was my
birthday and they’d liked my dance moves earlier when the DJ played a 50 Cent birthday song (?),
they started chanting, *“Carlos! Carlos! Carlos!”* (Gabe’s spellin’ pseudonym). We matched each
other right for right and wrong for wrong. *Selcouth* for me. *Soteriology* for him. I don’t
remember all the words, but we went back and forth three times, and then the emcee told us they were
short on time, and if I got the next word right, I’d win. This wasn’t fair to Gabe, who’d be
deprived of a chance to match my correct spelling (his number was after mine). But I didn’t press
the point. They gave me *megrim*. After I asked the pronunciation over and over, someone behind me
slipped and said /ˈmiːgrɨm/ instead of /ˈmiːgrəm/, and that gave me the hint I needed. I was
declared winner. But I knew, and I think they knew---since they gave him a prize too--that we were
rightly co-champions. It was glorious; people all over the bar congratulated me and/or told me
I owed them money on the bet they’d made.

Then, with surprising speed, everything turned into a dance party: fog machine and all. And I was
already about five beers into the night, and I guess because of that, I finally, for the first time,
figured out how to let go and just dance my ass off. If you couldn’t tell immediately, dance parties
aren’t usually my thing. When it gets too loud to hear people talking, I get scared and retreat into
a corner, and when I dance I’m always thinking about how I suck at dancing. Tonight the bass beats
of the house music somehow no longer felt threatening---they were an invitation, and I shared dances
with everyone in the house. I got *down*. I went up on stage with my friends and found myself
dancing with some fifty-something ladies---unrelated to speller #11---who called me the smartest
person in the room and were having loads of fun while their kids were on New York on a choir trip.
It was loud but when I wanted to talk I got louder. I finally *understood* dance parties. Erica
drove me home and I collapsed in a heap and I think I was still dizzy while I was sleeping.

Having done that, I don’t think dance parties are now going to become my thing. But it felt like
a culmination of living in the city. I’ve finally understood city energy and the strange but
compelling ways it brings people together in a dark room where they can’t hear each other and
somehow enhance their friendships or build new ones anyhow. My city education was complete. I can
leave with a clean conscience now.

Year twenty-eight is going to be a good one.
