---
title: I Did It
categories:
  - writing
  - comics
  - irrelevancies
  - hunting
tags:
  - West Virginia
excerpt_separator: "<!--sep-->"
---

*Second of two posts today. The first, which is the main one, is [here]({% post_url 2018-12-01-1-camp-turtle-island %}).*
{: .prefatory }

There's an announcement I have to make. Every so often, I write a short story.
Earlier this year I finished one, and I thought it turned out well enough that
I'd see if I could get it published. So I sent it off to Joel Caris at [*Into
the Ruins*](https://intotheruins.com) and, to skip to the exciting part, it's going to
be in the fall issue! 

<!--sep-->

*Into the Ruins* is, in Joel's words, a "deindustrial science fiction
quarterly focused on publishing speculative fiction that explores a future
defined by natural limits, energy and resource depletion, industrial decline,
climate change, and other consequences stemming from the reckless and
shortsighted exploitation of our planet, and to imagine the ways that humans
will adapt, survive, live, die, and thrive within this future."

"The No-Account", my contribution, is the story of Van, a young
bureaucrat-in-training from the city-state of Pittsburgh circa 2220, ruled by a
body styling itself the Rational Governance Council, which takes charge of
making sure the city is run with scientifically determined best practices. Van
is on a mission to a little village in the Appalachians that he knows
practically nothing about, but hopes the mission is simple enough that even with
his mediocre grades and grasp on ethnography he can pull it off: all he has to
do is propose an alliance that really only offers benefits for the locals. But
he discovers that, while English hasn't changed all that much, they can't quite
seem to understand each other, and on the way to figuring out why, he finds that
although he wasn't planning on learning much, the people here have something big
to teach him, and it'll change him, even change Pittsburgh.

It's to a large extent a story about stories, one that I started writing while
working out some thoughts on why it is we put so much importance on the
superficially sort of puzzling exercise of telling stories, and why they somehow
seem able to communicate more than a straight-up essay, even if they're full of
stuff someone just made up. I was going to write an blog post about those
thoughts, but then realized, Wait, I have to write this as a story.

Getting it published, sensibly enough, means I can't put it up on the blog right
now. If you'd like to see it in good company in your very own copy of the fall
issue of *Into the Ruins*, though, you'll be able to get it from the website as
soon as it's ready; I'll post something here when that happens. And if the concept behind *Into the Ruins* sounds good to you---if you're interested to read about runaways walking across the ruins of the American Southwest, and people beginning to settle in Antarctica as global warming makes growing land available, and dread palaces tiled with dead iPhones known as the silvery Apples of the ancients---well, you may find you want to subscribe. I can testify that I find the stories in it both riproaring and useful, the kinds of things I think back to for days to come and find myself trying to explain in tangentially related conversations.

To tide you over until the fall issue, though, here's a stupid comic strip I drew:

{% include fig.html src="welp.jpg" caption="(Click to enlarge)" %}

And a quick update on my latest peregrinations: I went to West Virginia with my
dad to hunt deer and celebrate Thanksgiving. I definitely succeeded at the
second one. On the first one, well, I tried. One evening near dusk I was on top
of the hill and two deer came crossing down below in single file. The rear one
was a buck with a nice rack, but I got all excited and made my shot too hastily,
and I missed and he ran away. It looks like becoming a successful hunter is
still something to work on. But I did get to spend time with cousins I hadn't
talked to in ages, and awkwardly feel bad for having no idea how to make
conversation with a church gymnasium full of 46 members of the West Virginia
side of my family who are mostly near-strangers to me. I did talk to a few. I
even met a prospective writer among them, just after the news got out about
me getting published, causing me to look unusually impressive and her to be
impressed (and me to feel strange about apparently being impressive).
