---
title: Heading Home
categories:
  - Year of Listening
  - angst
  - moving
  - sugarbush 
  - bad culture
tags:
  - Minnesota
  - Chequamegon
---

Here in Minnesota, a long, punishing Winter has been followed by a lovely Spring, which has been
followed by a spirited Second Winter. The morning of the 11th, before I started writing this,
snow fell with a brown tinge from dust that blew in from Texas. (Meteorologists call
this “snirt”.) Later that day while unlocking my bike to travel down slushy roads that two days
prior were clear and surrounded by green lawn, I saw a flash, looked up into the pelting hail, and
heard thunder.

Since I came back to the Twin Cities in (gosh!) early February, I’ve been in something of a holding
pattern, *planning* to move to the Chequamegon Bay but never quite making it out of the Cities with
anything more than my backpack. I’ve had a few meaningful projects to keep me busy, most notably
sugarbush, which I’ll get to in a bit, but in between them I’ve led a wandering, wraithlike
existence in which I’ve crashed on friends’ couches some nights, wearing through a series of
welcomes, and other nights slept outside in a variety of locations next to the river and under
bridges, depending on where I was the evening before and where I want to be the next day. I’ve built
up a mental list of places that are open long hours, and I’ve been delicately rotating which one
I loiter in during the waking hours of each day, so I don’t start getting dirty looks from the
proprietors.

{% include fig.html src="P82A0315-cleaned.jpg" caption="A culvert in California I camped in last
year." %}

Now and then I’ve been able to make it to the garage I keep my stuff in, and drop off or pick up
a few things, but by and large, everywhere I’ve gone I’ve had to hump along all my belongings---my
eighty-liter backpack, plus any peripheral stuff I have with me that day (computer, day bag). I’ve
tramped down Franklin Avenue so many times, heavily loaded, that I’ve started to wonder if people
see me as some kind of mythical figure, like the hitchhiker who keeps showing up beside the road
every couple hours through your long road trip. I’d make my move to the Chequamegon, except for
*this* thing that I need to do first (sugarbush, book project), and *that* something-or-other that’s
preventing me (no place lined up, no car to carry stuff). It’s been an interesting time to dig
further into the feeling of homelessness. 

Now, before I keep going, I should say that there’s homeless, and there’s *homeless*. When we use
that word, we’re usually thinking of someone who has no home because they’re too poor to have one,
someone who has no other recourse. I’ve had other recourses, and I won’t try to hide that fact. The
experiences I’ve had are, to an extent, ones that I’ve been able to take my distance from and treat
as intellectual curiosities, because the only thing keeping me on the streets is my own choices.
That’s not something the obligate homeless can say, and that means that for them life must often
seem like a neverending emergency. That’s not an experience I’ve had.

But the fact remains, I’m still homeless: the word “homeless” just says someone has no home, without
reference to whether they could have one if they wanted. And that’s been true for me for more or
less the last two years solid. I’ve stayed in a lot of places, some of them for a long time, but
none of them have been a place I could call my own. And these last couple months of skulking around
the sidewalks of the Twin Cities have been a more concentrated form of that same homelessness of my
last two years. Though I’ve still, by virtue of having money and an education, always had the option
of throwing in the towel, something has changed. When I started out traveling in April 2017 I felt
full of purpose and curiosity. Here at the ass end of my travels I’ve burnt through those reserves
and all I have left is the lack of a house.

{% include fig.html src="wc-hats-0304.jpg" caption="The junkyard I camped in when I was
[trimming](/blog/2017/10/23/what-hoboing-remains) in fall 2017." %}

{% include fig.html src="wc-hats-0279.jpg" caption="Abandoned building near the tracks in Glasgow,
Montana, where I took shelter from the rain between trains." %}

See, there are limits in every lifestyle. If you live in a house in a town where you have social and
work commitments, you can’t get the breadth of experience that you get when you’re untethered and
can go wherever the wind blows you on a moment’s notice. Housies (as some vagabonds call them) can’t
just hop a train across the country on a whim, and might miss the occasional eclipse. But when my
[“home is wherever I lay,”](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bR7btNQ4yyo) it’s not really home, and
there are a lot of things I wish I could do that I just can’t. Someday I’d like to brew drinks, for
starters. I’d like to be able to get up, open my computer, and start writing something, without
feeling like I’m taking up a bunch of space in someone else’s home. I’d like, please and thank you,
to be able to go somewhere a couple miles away with just what’s in my pockets and not have to find
a place to hide the backpack that contains everything I use on a day-to-day basis lest it vanish.
There’s a reason people have houses. People imagine my lifestyle as the archetype of freedom. But it
turns out there’s no such thing as just “freedom”, only the freedom to do certain things, and when
you pick up a new set of freedoms, you have to lay down another set you were carrying.

{% include fig.html src="cyclecircle-2024.jpg" caption="Even camping out on beaches as beautiful as
this one (on Lake Superior during Traditional Ways---a traditional skills gathering I haven’t gotten
around to writing about) gets old without stability." %}

{% include fig.html src="arc-ohio-minnbike-1966.jpg" caption="An unused field I camped in near
Duluth while biking around Minnesota last year." %}

What’s interesting is, just having a house isn’t enough to exorcise the feeling of homelessness.
Having dwelt within this condition for a while, I want to make a possibly controversial diagnosis:
I believe this country in general suffers from chronic low-level homelessness.

In an individual, the psychological effects of homelessness are merely harrowing. Everywhere I go,
even when I haven’t been asked to, I try to take up as little space as possible, to be as invisible
as possible. No space being mine, I’m constantly aware of how much of other people’s space I’m using
up, and always alert for the hints that say my welcome is starting to wear thin. After a while
looking out for those hints you start seeing them even when they aren’t there. The last few days,
I’ve been staying on the porch of my friends Brandon and Liz, two people not strangers to the
vagabond lifeway, having lived for five months under a truck cap atop a tank of veggie oil that
powered their cross-country road trip. Their living room is huge and sparsely used,
and they’ve been ceaselessly welcoming. But I’ve still made sure to stay there as little as
possible, to stay outside their house---I’ve written this post in a local bookstore and
cafes---because our friendship is young and not stress-tested, and I want to make sure not to burn
the bridge. You can even see the self-defeating nature of this mindset: perhaps if I hung out more,
in the time I didn’t spend writing blog posts, I could deepen that friendship, and have less to
worry about. But that tolerance-o-meter whose needle twitches back and forth in my head doesn’t
account for such considerations, preferring always to make the most conservative estimate of how
long I can stay somewhere.

Likewise, I find it hard these days to imagine a long-term future. If it weren’t for the knowledge
that I *can* have a home and soon *will*, I’d have trouble imagining that the future exists at all
beyond an event horizon about a month from now. Someone told me the other day about a friend of his,
who worked roofing. The friend was financially secure but worked with crews mostly composed of
people who weren’t, and he was astonished at how fast they could go through money on payday. Spend
it like it might vanish at any moment, is the motto---and it may hold more truth than it seems,
since poverty, as has been widely noted, charges interest in the form of inability to pay for
anything of quality, including cars (junker-of-the-month club), medical insurance (you’ll love our
$7,000 deductible), and food (organic and local on a budget: the McDonald’s two blocks away sells
food made of organic molecules). It’s lack of money that amputates these people’s foresight, but
money is a means of providing yourself with a situation, and when I’m drifting about situationless,
even the savings I have can’t restore my ability to wholeheartedly believe that next year will come.
As a countermeasure, a couple weeks ago I started writing a list of things I’d like to do when
I have a place to live. I’ve written at least forty things, from creating the Ultimate Travelers’
Map of North America to picking up the banjo to possibly even starting a magazine, and I still
haven’t reached the bottom of the well. I’d almost forgotten that I’m an interesting person, I was
trying so hard to be invisible, and using up so much of my mental effort to stress out about where
to sleep each night.

The homelessness that I think afflicts the US at large isn’t as deep as the hole I’ve been in. You
might not even notice it from within it. But it looks like: you assume that growing up includes
a part where the kid moves far away from home and maybe never comes back. It looks like: the
question “Where do you live?” is being replaced, especially in lower-class dialects, by “Where do
you stay at?” It looks like: when you ask someone where they’re from, you don’t consider it unusual
to hear, “Oh, all over,” followed by a list of cities in every corner of the country. It looks like:
it’s considered business as usual if an entire neighborhood is leveled to put in a highway (as
happened in the old Rondo neighborhood of St Paul when I-94 was built).

{% include fig.html src="Adventure_472.jpg" caption="A country church I passed in Galicia while
I walked the Way of St James."
%}

{% include fig.html src="Adventure_473.jpg" caption="Parishioners crowd in." %}

{% include fig.html src="Adventure_525.jpg" caption="The wine grape terraces of the Cinque Terre,
where I camped out on a closed-off walking path, have been built up and scrupulously maintained for
centuries." %}

Perhaps it’s most understandable by contrast. Look, for example, at the towns and fields of rural
Europe, where you can find a church that has stood for half a millennium and hosted worshippers
every week, and a farm that has been tended perhaps even longer (though with some changes in the
last few decades as the US’s contagious homelessness has jumped to other places). Or there’s the
Kayapó tribe of the Xingu River, a tributary of the Amazon, which the Brazilian government would
dearly love to dam for electricity. The Kayapó (among other tribes) have done everything humanly
possible to stop the dam from being built and their rainforest home getting turned into a lake the
size of Delaware: not confining themselves to bloodless picketing in front of government buildings,
they blockaded a major highway and ferry crossing for over a month, and promised to stop the dam’s
construction or “die fighting for our rights.” (Construction was suspended in 2016.) If the
government wanted to flood you out of your home, would you be willing to die to stop them from doing
it? Even near us you can see people who have a place they call home---the water protectors, for
instance, who put their bodies on the line at Standing Rock when the police were spraying water
cannons at them in below-freezing weather. It’s no coincidence that that was an effort led by Native
Americans, whose home has been this continent for longer than anyone rightly knows.

{% include fig.html src="standingrock.jpg" caption="Standing Rock (via
[workers.org](https://www.workers.org/2016/11/22/national-day-of-mourning-from-plymouth-rock-to-standing-rock/))."
%}

But for us descendants of settlers, especially those of us who live in cities, imagining such a deep
connection makes us a little nervous. We fairly often have some superficial connections to the
places we live in---communities of friends who all happen to live in the same geographical area,
stories that reach back perhaps a generation or two. But who could possibly love a *place* so much
that they’d think keeping it safe is more important than their own *life*? Perhaps, strangely
enough, the homelessness of a nation can be measured by the absence of things its people are willing
to sacrifice themselves for. 

What I’m getting at, partly, by talking about homelessness, is a definition of what *home* is. It’s
not just a house that you can sleep in at night. It’s a place where the land, the people, and the
history all nourish you, and you nourish them. It’s a place where the boundary between you and
what’s around you becomes a soft blur instead of a sharp line, because without its stories your mind
would be less, without the food that grows there your body would be less, and without the people
(human and not) who live there your heart would be less---and the place wouldn’t be what it is
without your presence, your tending, and your storytelling. Can you say you’ve experienced a place
like that? Maybe, but if you have, and if you’re a settler-descended dweller of the New World, you
probably can’t say you have for very long, or as deeply as you wish you had. “One of the
peculiarities of the white race’s presence in America,” Wendell Berry writes,[^1] “is how little
intention has been applied to it. As a people, wherever we have been, we have never really intended
to be. The continent is said to have been discovered by an Italian who was on his way to India. The
earliest explorers were looking for gold, which was, after an early streak of luck in Mexico, always
somewhere farther on. Conquests and foundings were incidental to this search….” 

[^1]: In “The Unsettling of America” (published in a book of the same name, Counterpoint, 1996).

So much for the diagnosis. How about the psychological fallout? Well, here’s the thing: humans need
to feel at home; it’s a basic part of our psychology, and as I’ve described it, it encompasses fully
the bottom three levels of Abraham Maslow’s famous five-level “hierarchy of needs”. When our lives
have the aspects of home that are necessary to simply stay physically alive but are missing the
others, we constantly seek them the way we would food or water.

But the profoundly incomplete situation most of us in the US live in is what we are told *is* home,
and that makes us unsure how to find what’s missing, mostly unable even to identify what’s missing.
And so the unconscious levels of our minds are constantly trying to escape an unsatisfactory
situation, a lifestyle that our biological heritage tells us is essentially the same as prison
except with more cushions. But we don’t have any clear vision of where to escape *to*. So we end up
constantly running away: from towns we used to live in, from jobs we once had, from interests we
used to sink into, and especially from any introspection about all of this. It ends up that the raw
blind momentum of running away is the goal we all have in mind at some level, even if we don’t act
on it, even if we spend decades in the same place with the same people just wondering when we’ll
figure out where to go to finally find fulfillment (perhaps that annual two-week vacation---if this
year didn’t do the trick, maybe next year will).

Even our theologies are all about escape. Christianity, as practiced in this country, is of course
all about throwing off the Earthly shackles of our bodies and coming to our true home with the Lord.
(I hear there are places where it was once focused on good works and making Earth reflect God’s
kingdom.) I’m reminded of a conversation I had with a classmate in high school. I asked if she
thought much about global warming and what people could do about it. “Oh, I don’t worry about that,”
she said. “The Rapture will be coming before any of that happens.” Those of us who have scrapped
Christianity in favor of more secural eschatologies have kept the same story but in slightly
different garb: Heaven has been swapped out for a vaguely scientific version of the same, a “true”
home in interplanetary colonies (witness Russian rocket scientist Konstantin Tsiolkovsky’s
pseudo-profound and often-repeated inanity, “The Earth is humanity’s cradle, but mankind cannot stay
in the cradle forever”), or perhaps Ray Kurzweil’s always-thirty-years-off artificial intelligence
“singularity”.

And if your goal, for your Earthly life as well as your post-Earthly life (if applicable) and the
lives of all future humans, is to escape, is it any wonder if you feel trapped in the narrow
confines of the present moment and the presently possible?

We’re always looking into the future; a wave of Buddhist thought since the 1970s has been able to
help a few people find contentment in the present, but has on the whole failed to keep the country’s
focus from bleeding ever away from *now* and into the endless empty promises of the unknown. It’s
worse now than ever, and I’m afraid I don’t see my generational cohort reversing the momentum, but
rather much the opposite, with a not entirely unquestioning but nonetheless complete embrace of all
the latest in video game, smartphone, and social media technology that keep us more and more in
escape mode. Millennials uniformly maintain that they have an ambivalent relationship to these
technologies that, to all outward appearances, they seem almost religiously devoted to; ambivalence
and irony are my generation’s stock in trade, our way of convincing ourselves we’re on some path to
sanity while we play exactly the insane parts we’re expected to play in an insane world.

Look, it wasn’t always this way. In Edward Bellamy’s 1887 smash bestseller *Looking Backward*, a man
wakes up from a deep mesmeric sleep to find 113 years have passed and the United States has turned
into a socialist paradise. The book’s audience was a less discontented American populace, people who
had come, or whose ancestors had come, footloose from across the seas, but who were now gamely
attempting to feel at home in farmsteads and workshops on this alien new continent. The story is
unabashedly socialist propaganda, though of a very pleasant nature, but what struck me about it was
Bellamy’s vision of a worthy goal for humankind once socialism had solved our pressing material
problems. It’s a vision devoid of spaceships and supercomputers, and very human. “The animating idea
of the present age,” preaches the pastor Mr Barton over a telephone broadcast to a congregation of
150,000, “is an enthusiastic conception of the opportunities of our earthly existence, and the
unbounded possibilities of human nature. The betterment of mankind from generation to generation,
physically, mentally, morally, is recognized as the one great object supremely worthy of effort and
of sacrifice…. For twofold is the return of man to God ‘who is our home,’ the return of the
individual by way of death, and the return of the race by the fulfillment of the evolution, when the
divine secret hidden in the germ shall be perfectly unfolded.” So, you can have that vision, or you
can have Mars colonies where solar wind would give you “so much cancer, the cancer would have
cancer.”[^2]

[^2]: Andy Weir, *The Martian*.


{% include fig.html src="Adventure_237.jpg" caption="Nomadic herders I met in
[Mongolia](/blog/2014/08/18/giant-backlog-of-photos-i-mongolia)." %}

And it’s also not like this everywhere. In fact, I think it’s likely that those of us living in
citified America with citified values are living in the most homeless era of human existence ever
attained. Even kings in medieval Europe connected to the Earth in their fashion, by donning stylish
clothes and going hunting in woods kept tended especially for them. Today’s version of those who’ve
made it to the top, though, celebrate their success by buying mansions perched on hills in the
country and then staying inside while a groundskeeper maintains a beautiful view to be glimpsed from
the picture window on the way to the home theater. And if that’s not enough, as it generally isn’t
for their children who didn’t strive and trample for that success but had it dropped upon them at
birth, there’s always coke and world travel. With the latter they can catch the occasional contact
buzz when their tour bus takes them past villagers in Laos or Zimbabwe who actually live at home.

But like I said, it’s hard to see this detachment from within it. Unwittingly, I seem to have spent
much of the last two years learning more about it by diving further down into it, which makes me
able to see it better than I ever could before. When I was setting out, I would’ve told you I was
learning about home by going to places where I suspected people had created a home. Now two years
on, I believe there was some merit in that idea but the way I’ll really learn is by working to
create home wherever I am. By visiting other people’s homes, I can learn what works for other
people. At some point, I need to start learning what works for me. Until then I’m just learning more
about homelessness, and right now I don’t think that’s something I need to do.

Counterintuitively, one of the places I’ve felt most at home recently has been a temporary
encampment in a forest with no plumbing, beds, or electricity (until some high-schoolers doing
a project came and installed a solar panel in a hollow tree). I’m talking about sugarbush.

{% include fig.html src="migizi-solar.jpg" caption="These are the kids from Migizi, a high school
  equivalency program that brought them down to camp and got them all interested enough to build
  this kick-ass solar charging station." %}

{% include fig.html src="jayden.jpg" caption="This 5-year-old kid, who’s in a Lakota immersion
  class, blew my mind by showing me his collection of Pokémon cards. I collected those things *twenty
    years ago*. Everyone told me they’d be worthless by now. I bet I’d be sitting on a fortune. He and
    I had a lot of fun chasing each other around in the mud." %}

This year, for the third year running I returned to Porky’s Sugarbush, thirty miles west of
Minneapolis on the shores of Lake Independence. When I arrived, the place was a foot and a half deep
in snow. When we held the closing ceremony and packed out three weeks later, there were a couple
little patches of it in the shade. In between, hundreds of people came through, and I made new
friends and helped the community. It really struck me this year how much of a community this
sugarbush really is. I mean to say: here we all are, out around the fire, in the woods. We’re making
food---maple syrup, which will last us all year and keep us remembering camp every time we eat some.
People bring their smartphones, but the distraction value of them quickly becomes very pale for all
but the most hardcore addicts in the presence of five, ten, or dozens of people who are all full of
interesting stories and friendly welcome. This was the 44th year of Porky’s sugarbush, and those
who’ve been coming for a long time told stories, more I think this year than I remember, about
people who used to come but have moved on or passed on. Porky White has been gone for 18 years now,
but during one of the songs at the last Sunday ceremony, Deb---his wife and the owner of the
land---welled up with tears because his spirit had come back for a visit while she was singing
a song he taught her. Elders came who were known and loved by the whole community, like AIM great
Clyde Bellecourt, who made time for camp between hospital visits; and there were babies who one day
will hopefully be known and loved the same way. We had ceremonies and we shared sacred
teachings---at the Sunday ceremonies that drew dozens of people, in Pebaam’s “&thinsp;’Baam
Shelter”, and while sitting around the sap kettles on the fire. We goofed off and told jokes; Deb
and I rode the little camp ATV all the way to the pizza place in town for $5 pizza night, and
Brandon and Pebaam riffed off each other to create an overabundance of hard-to-bear new puns.

{% include fig.html src="pebaam-laura.jpg" caption="Pebaamibines and Laura are each other’s
  sweeties." %}

{% include fig.html src="naseyaawangwaan.jpg" caption="All hands on deck to get the sugar to
  crystallize." %}

{% include fig.html src="kids-creek.jpg" caption="Kids playing in the creek." %}

Everyone’s always sad when camp ends for the year. A few hundred years ago, we wouldn’t be splitting
up for the year now but rather moving to the summer village site, where we’d be together in even
greater numbers. But in 2019, last week marked when we all went back to our houses scattered around
Minnesota; some of us will see each other throughout the coming summer, fall, and winter, but we
won’t have anything that keeps us as united and purposeful together as that pocket of sweetness in
the snow and cold.

It’s not necessarily a single place that makes home. It’s a land you have a deep, let’s even say
spiritual, relation with, even if that relation is spread out over hundreds of miles of territory.
It’s people you work together with, even if some of those people annoy you (I don’t have in mind
anyone specefic, in case my sugarbush friends read this, just the idea that any healthy community is
one where people can disagree but still work together). It’s a common goal, even something as simple
as a harvest. It’s a history, it’s stories---I know no word specifically to mean *history* in
Ojibwe, but I suspect to express that notion one would in fact use the word for “stories”,
*aadizookaanag*, a noun that’s grammatically animate along with people, animals, and trees, and
which has another meaning, “spirits”.

And that’s what I’m going to be working on finding and creating, starting this week when I move to
the Chequamegon Bay. It’s a bit bittersweet, going there; for as much as I love the place, these
past couple months in Minneapolis have made me really appreciate the friendships I have here (and
I have a lot). But the land itself is harder for me to hear here, harder for me to weave into my
daily life when city distractions are drawing me the opposite direction. I’m taking a gamble that
the friendships I strengthen up on the Chequamegon and the time I can spend with the land there will
balance out to the good even despite the friendships I attenuate here by leaving.

And also, I’m guessing I won’t spend all my time there, but migrate, perhaps with the seasons or
perhaps back and forth according to a more modern clock, visiting my friends here in the Cities when
the time is right, and planting, tending, and being with friends up by the Lake when that’s what
I need to be doing. I’ve proven to myself that I’m good at traveling, I figure, so why not travel
when I want to, as long as I can support myself at the same time, and do it in a way I believe
in---with no car of my own, and making sure not to sacrifice my relationship with place for simple
pleasure or to run away from anything? The tribes of the Great Plains here on Turtle Island traveled
a hoop each year, harvesting in each place and planting before they left, coming around full circle
at the beginning of each year, and for as much as we could call them homeless for having only the
houses they could carry, theirs was really a concept of home with a depth that we can hardly even
conceive, because every hillock and creek was part of their community and part of their
dwellingplace.

In any case, the only way to know is to try, and I’m excited---I’d almost forgotten how to feel
excitement---to finally head home.
