---
title: Out Now
categories:
  - writing
---

I've been away from the blog for a while, I know. I don't have much to say just at this moment, but I'll be back with more words and stuff. But what I do have to say is this:

In my [last post]({% post_url 2018-12-01-2-i-did-it %}) I mentioned a story I wrote was getting published in *Into the Ruins*, Fall 2019, and I mentioned I'd let everyone know when it was available. Well, it is now![^1] You can get a copy at the [*ItR* website at this link](https://intotheruins.com/issues/issue-11-fall-2018/). 

Might I say, besides my story, the other four stories in this issue are pretty fantastic as well, some of them good enough that I blush to share their company. If you were to get the last year or so of back issues as well, you could also look to the letters to the editor and see a running duel of words, on whether *data* is a plural or a singular and why this is such a worldshaking question, that I've been having with G. Kay Bishop, who I can now call a fellow *ItR* author. But in this issue I missed my chance to write to her, so if you get only the Fall 2018 issue you'll have to content yourself with an ecstatically crafted story from Bishop instead.

***

As for why I haven't written, let me assure you I'm not out having amazing adventures and holding out on you for their stories. What's going on is, I'm working on a big project --- laying out and editing a genealogy book for my great-aunt --- and while I'm doing it I'm staying with my family in Ohio. So there's not a lot to tell, besides "I sat in a house and used a computer for most of today." I've done some other things, like celebrate Christmas with my folks, but mostly it's been stuff that's of interest only to people who were there when it happened anyhow. I've got other thoughts a-brewing, but they'll have to wait for when I'm done with this genealogy book; it's currently Priority One.


[^1]: You may have noticed that it's not currently fall of 2018. This issue was subject to some serious delays because the printing company changed some things out from under Joel, the publisher, but it's made it out the gate. Oh, also, I'm a few days late in mentioning it.
