---
title:
categories:
  - 

published: false
---

A few months ago, I found myself with a sudden longing to get a little truck. I know: it was
a surprise to me too. 

I haven’t had a motor vehicle to call my own since 2016 when I got rid of a Mustang that was kicked
down to me after a brief midlife crisis my father had, by selling it to a dissolute character
I found on Craigslist. What’s more, I was pretty evangelical about the blessings of a car-free life.
I lived in a city and didn’t need one; my bicycle was plenty. Then I traveled hobo-style for two
years, and for that time shoe leather, my thumb, and freight trains got me everywhere I wanted to
go. And when I moved up to northern Wisconsin, though the distances were longer---five miles from my
bedroom to the nearest town---I found I rarely felt compelled to move anything besides my own person
and the occasional load of groceries from place to place, and I could accomplish all that by bike
and bus, even in dead of winter.

(I waited long enough after getting rid of the Mustang, in fact, that before ever considering owning
another car, I had managed to hear the end of its story. One day I got a letter from a junkyard in
Alabama, asking if I owned the below-named vehicle. I called them up and confirmed with the
friendly, down-home woman who answered that yes, I had once had a green Mustang, but I had sold it
years ago and I’d eventually even filed an official notice saying so. She explained that it was
white now, and had been languishing in their lot since getting confiscated during an armed robbery
a month prior. It had South Carolina plates, but South Carolina didn’t know any legal owner, and
referred her to West Virginia---where it had also never been registered legally. West Virginia told
her to check Minnesota, where it turned out I was the last one to legitimately hold a title on the
car. I could even have it back, if I cared to pay $6,700 in garaging fees. Tempting though this
sounded, she and I agreed that it was probably better if I let them scrap it.)

Partly this new longing for a pickup was because I had just inflamed my imagination with a wonderful
book called [*The Hand-Sculpted
House*](https://www.chelseagreen.com/product/the-hand-sculpted-house/), which is about building with
cob. *Cob* (unrelated to the kind corn comes on, deriving from a Welsh word for “lump”) is
a building material not much in use anymore, but which formerly made up a sizeable number of the
houses in the British Isles, as well as places further flung, like Yemen. It’s a mixture of sand,
clay to hold it together, and straw to give the whole deal tensile strength. Houses built of it have
been standing in England for five hundred years. You can build a house out of cob for a few percent
of what it costs to make a stud-frame house, and it’s a process much friendlier to beginner
mistakes. The house you get is more energy-efficient and the material begs to be made not into rigid
boxes but into nice curvy shapes conducive to a hippie-dippie vibe that I, despite an occasional
disdain for the hippies and their failures, still have to admit I’m drawn to. The pictures in the
center of the book made me seize paper and start dreaming up floor plans for a house Misty and
I could live in.

One shortcoming of cob that *The Hand-Sculpted House* mentions is that it does poorly in places
where the weather gets seriously cold. Its great thermal mass is extraordinarily good at maintaining
heat at a steady level, day and night, over the course of a week or so, but this amounts more to
*averaging* heat nicely than to particularly *retaining* it. And the winters up here, where it hits
–20° pretty reliably a few nights each year, certainly qualify as seriously cold, cold enough to
cause problems with cob houses as described in the book. But the authors also mentioned that people
were currently at work on solving that very problem, and twenty years had passed since the book was
published, so I allowed my hopes to fly, tempered with the knowledge that I was riding high on an
initial wave of excitement, and also that what I hoped to do may not in fact be possible.

But, I reasoned, if I ever wanted to build with cob---or if I ever wanted to build a house of any
sort, which I certainly did---I would need a truck. Something to haul sand and clay and big heavy
door lintel beams and all those things that excited me when I imagined them.

And come to think of it, I realized, I was starting to get tired of having such limited
effectiveness in the world. With my bike I could get myself from place to place, and I could carry
around lightweight things, like ideas and words and friendships. And a life spent moving nothing
heavier than those could certainly be interesting and worth living. But I was starting to yearn to
change the world not just in the realm of ideas but *physically* too. I’d been reading Wendell Berry
and I’d just planted one of my first real gardens. I wanted to get my hands dirty. I wanted to stop
being exclusively a gadabout and flâneur, and open up the possibility of becoming a *homesteader*. 

An earlier version of myself may have judged a truck to be an unacceptable capitulation to the
dominant system. I may have proclaimed confidently that I would never settle for anything that
emitted any more CO<sub>2</sub> than a horse. The current me is still somewhat conflicted on that
point, but has, it appears, come down on the side of wanting a truck. I will still be pleased,
though, if in a decade or two it turns out my main methods of transportation are bicycle and
horse-and-buggy.

It’s just that it takes effort to swim against the current. Right now, the world around me is set up
for cars. The roads teem with other cars; on Highway 13, part of my only practical route to most
places I need to go, it’s certainly *legal* to drive a horse, but the speed limit of 55 <span
class="smcp">mph</span> and the tight curves mean the buggy would probably become kindling within
a month, and possibly the driver with it. Nor are there hostlers or hitching posts handy in these
towns anymore. The bike is more practical around here than a horse, but even a serious heavy-duty
bike trailer brings its functionality only to a remote shouting distance from a truck or even
a buggy. For one, a bike turns sixty miles into a day rather than an hour, and the distance to good
jobs and good foods is harder to close these days than it was before cars showed up, small family
farms began disintegrating, and the railroads all pulled up their tracks. And for another, biking is
mostly solitary, since the kind of people dedicated enough to go long distances on bike like I do
are few (though by no means absent): going somewhere with someone else would usually end up with the
other person riding a car anyway. Though I may be able to get a tandem into our lives one of these
days.

I entertain a vague hope that eventually I can learn to do enough good for the biosphere with
a truck that I partially offset, or even outweigh, how much I use it. That may be wishful thinking,
since gasoline really is a powerful force for environmental havoc. If it turns out I really like
building with cob, a little truck may be just what I need to start up a business building cob houses
for people all around here, and then the BTUs that people don’t pump into the McMansions they would
otherwise build may make the truck carbon-negative. But more likely, I’m resigning myself to being
a part of the destruction of the planet on what I hope is a temporary basis---long enough for me and
Misty to build ourselves a house, get situated in it, and become self-sustaining enough from the
land that most of our transportation needs can again be met on foot, bike, or even hoof. It’s an
adjustment phase, while we dial back the clock.

And fittingly, the truck that I found is nearly as old as my little brother, a ’98 Ford Ranger, old
enough to have voted for Jill Stein in 2016. It’s small and durable, and has only 135,000 miles,
likely to last years longer with good treatment. We got it from a guy who painted my former
landlady’s mom’s house once. He sold it to us for a sweetheart price and threw in an extra set of
wheels and a toolbox full of goodies. When we don’t just call it “the truck”, we call it Blondie.

{% include fig.html src="" %}

This truck represents the first time *I’ve* really decided to be an automobile owner, and I’ve
noticed an interesting contrast between now and the past couple cars I’ve ended up owning out of
happenstance. It’s just this: with Blondie, I actually care about maintenance. Up until the last
couple months, I had an almost gut aversion to doing anything under the hood of a car. I could fill
the gas, add oil, and, in a pinch, put on a spare tire. But beyond that, I filed car knowledge under
“stuff car people care about”. I wasn’t a car person, and accordingly I ignored it. There may have
been[^may] a touch of smugness underlying that disregard: “I wouldn’t know *that*---I don’t deal with
those terrible machines.” The same kind of smugness an evangelical vegan has about not knowing how
to cook meat.

[^may]: There was.

This past week, I changed the leaf springs in Blondie. The guy who sold it to us warned us that
those would need to be changed. “It’s super easy,” he said, “you just get the new one and slip it in
there.” I nodded but thought to myself, “*Easy*, sure. You are so full of shit.” But after putting
it off for a month, I finally got around to having some new springs cut, at a place over in Duluth,
and then without dragging my heels any worse, I set about putting them on a couple days later. The
guys at Duluth Superior Spring assured me it was really simple to put on the new spring. “You just
cut through those bolts, and slide it in, and hammer down that bracket, and bolt it all back
together.” I could already tell it was going to be a nightmare.

But I borrowed a floor jack from our landlord, and got out my hacksaw and hammer and the rest, and
got to it. And, well, it *was* awful. One of the wheels wouldn’t come off at the beginning with
anything short of a lot of really hard kicking. I had eight bolts to saw through, and not one of
them was in a place that gave me enough elbow room to comfortably saw. The hacksaw and the electric
saw both jammed up consistently every thirty seconds or less. The first bolt on either side more or
less exploded apart when I got it cut through, which was pretty disconcerting. Until I understood
which way all the forces were balanced, I proceeded at arm’s length and with my eyes squinted,
convinced that at any moment the tension in the leaf springs would recoil and send bolt
fragments everywhere. I got exhausted from sawing, exhausted differently from maneuvering heavy
chunks of metal, and covered in grease up to my elbows. The car was up on blocks for three days and
two nights, and for half that time I remained convinced that I’d either damage the truck beyond
repair or get in way beyond my depth and have to find some car whiz to bail me out.

But I got it done. And when I did, I felt a sense of real accomplishment. *I have a tool, and I know
how to maintain it.* And that makes me feel in control.

The other cars I’ve had have been something like adversaries: I work with them for as long as they
see fit to keep working, but at any whim of theirs they could break down, and leave me with no
choice but to pay hundreds of dollars or abandon the notion of having a car. I treated them with
suspicion and mostly dealt with their problems by ignoring them, indeed ignoring the whole car. (I
barely used either of them. Misty knew me for most of a year before finding out I had the Mustang,
because I had lent it long-term to a friend. The other, a Civic, I had barely any relation to aside
from being on the title; Misty was the one who used it.) With Blondie, though, I’m taking
a different tack. I’m treating this useful thing with respect, keeping it clean, keeping it in good
order. I changed the oil the other day, and the air filter too. I’m learning how it works so that if
it breaks down I’m not at the mercy of gearheads---I can actually do something.

In return, I’ve been able to accomplish some cool stuff. I’ve moved house for me and Misty. I’ve
hauled some firewood. (Admittedly, I’ve hauled only about a ninth of what we have out front of our
house right now, the rest of it having come in the trucks of people we know who actually have
chainsaws. But on the other hand, Blondie did bring the pallets that the wood is all stacked on.)
I’ve carried a canoe to a wild rice lake and gone ricing. And hopefully sometime soon I’ll even be
able to build a new house with Blondie’s help.

The essential thing is to own the tool, not be owned by it. A truck I understand and can work on is
a truck I own. A truck that does things I can’t predict and can’t fix is a truck that owns me. 

In a strange way, it’s even liberating to make mistakes. When I “changed the oil”, it turned out
that the nice big plug marked <span class="smcp">drain</span> was in fact the drain for the
transmission fluid, and the reason the truck soon started making a hideous moan was that I’d drained
the transmission dry believing it was the oil. We ran the transmission like that for over 200 miles
before finally figuring out my terrible mistake.
But had you asked me beforehand what the consequences of running a transmission without oil in it
might be, I would have guessed, “catastrophic bricking of the engine followed by a tow to the scrap
yard.” As it happens, the truck perked right back up after I added fluid back in, and seems barely
the worse for wear (although in fact I may have taken thousands of miles off its lifetime). And now
I know better. There’s more than one drain on a car. The more I learn, even the hard way, the better
off I am.

Does that mean I’m going to become a car geek? Not likely. I might not even make it to the top half
of people I know, in terms of car knowledge. However carefully maintained, any car is inherently
going to spew greenhouse gases,[^tes] and that knowledge will always temper any enthusiasm I have
for things automotive. But what’s important, here, is that I’m the one in control, because I won’t
give up my power. I can change a leaf spring: nothing can stop me.

[^tes]: Yes, even a Tesla: it just spews them from the power plant instead.
