---
title: "Shaken"
subtitle: "Deep Island, pt. 8"
categories:
  - fasting
  - language
  - religion
  - Anishinaabe
  - Deep Island
tags:
  - Canada
excerpt: |
  My fast began at sunrise, while I was still asleep. In the late morning, once
  we fasters had packed, we got on Pebaam’s boat and he drove us to all corners
  of Nigigoonsiminikaaning to drop us off at our fasting places. I was the last
  one. Pebaam floated up next to a pink granite slab at deck height, and I
  tossed all my stuff onto this little island, then jumped on and watched
  Pebaam’s boat dwindle into the distance.
---

**Deep Island:**
{: .text-center .prefatory }

[Contents]({% post_url 2020-03-19-m-rundown %}) •
[1]({% post_url 2020-03-19-a-viewers-of-views %}) •
[2]({% post_url 2020-03-19-b-you-cant-get-there-from-here %}) •
[3]({% post_url 2020-03-19-c-indian-trails %}) •
[4]({% post_url 2020-03-19-d-spirit-peeks-in %}) •
[5]({% post_url 2020-03-19-e-stranger-in-strange-enclave %}) •
[6]({% post_url 2020-03-19-f-around-kettles %}) •
[7]({% post_url 2020-03-19-g-introductions %}) •
**8** •
[9]({% post_url 2020-03-19-i-lost-found %}) •
[10]({% post_url 2020-03-19-j-what-river-said %}) •
[11]({% post_url 2020-03-19-k-back-for-more %}) •
[12]({% post_url 2020-03-19-l-doing-work %})
{: .text-center .prefatory }



My fast began at sunrise, while I was still asleep. In the late morning, once we fasters had packed, we
got on Pebaam’s boat and he drove us to all corners of Nigigoonsiminikaaning to drop us off at our
fasting places. I was the last one. Pebaam floated up next to a pink granite slab at deck height, and
I tossed all my stuff onto this little island, then jumped on and watched Pebaam’s boat dwindle into the
distance.

And there I was. I had been waiting all my life to get onto an island like this. Not only had I wanted
to fast since I read Lame Deer, I had also spent all my childhood Crow Duck trips looking out of boats
wistfully while other people drove right past all the lake’s islands all thick with mystery. Just once
I wanted to go explore one of those islands and step where maybe no human foot had ever stepped.
I couldn’t have said what I hoped to find there. Certainly not just spruce trees and spider webs, which
is what the grown-up driving the boat always seemed to figure was all that would be there. It seemed to
me that a place so untouched had to be able to show me, for the first time, what was really real. Now,
at age twenty-eight, I got to stay on one and experience whatever the island could show me through three
more sunrises.

The thing was, I felt very normal. I mean, sure, I was the only human on a comically remote island, and
I had no food or water. But despite all that, I felt basically like myself. My perceptions of the world
didn’t change appreciably when Pebaam’s boat disappeared. Spirits didn’t suddenly rush into my mind and
begin filling it with swirling images I could spend the next year interpreting. In short, I wasn’t
having an acid trip. I was just standing on an island. In fact I wasn’t even very hungry yet---I’d eaten
as recently as dinner last night.

Clearly this was going to be a slower burn than the sweat lodge had been. I set about taking care of
everything material I had to do: setting up my sleeping place on a bed of cedar boughs; getting a tarp
set up over it. I walked the perimeter of the island. It took me about half an hour (mostly because
I had to do a lot of bushwhacking), and it was very pretty. I sat down and worked on a crafting project
I’d brought along, a tobacco pouch. Once I finished, I was all out of material things to do. All I had
left to occupy myself with was my mind and, perhaps once I knew what I was looking for, my spirit. I had
a lot of daylight left, and it was only the first day.

But I did have something to contemplate. Did I have anything to ask at the shaking tent?

The most typical Anishinaabe fast is just you, an island, and four days without food or water. But that
template can be adapted if it needs to be. Before I got to camp Pebaamibines had put out one guy for
a fast who was bringing along plenty of food and water to last the whole time, because he’d had
a troubled history of nourishing himself well and was going to be taking a fast from distractions and
tendencies that usually stopped him from taking care of himself. This year a couple people were going to
break their fasts a day early to help around camp. And if a shaking tent ceremony is going to happen
right in the middle of your fast, you definitely go if you feel called. That’s what happened this year:
PaShawOneeBinace would be leading the shaking tent on my second night of fasting.

When I got to my island I knew almost nothing about the shaking tent. I knew it was described as
a way to ask the spirits a question directly, and I knew it was one of the most sacred ceremonies in the
Anishinaabe tradition. If my experience at Nigigoonsiminikaaning hadn’t felt like jumping in the deep
end yet, it certainly did once I was invited to a shaking tent. Until a few days ago, I had been, in
practical terms, just a language learner. Inwardly I knew I had come to learn the language not just
because I liked grammatical puzzles and getting social justice cred, but because something about the
spiritual tradition it served as a medium for attracted me on a deep level. But my actual acquaintance
with that tradition had barely started. I was in way over my head on this if I wanted to participate.
I was still only halfway reconciled to the idea that spirits even existed, and I was still trying to
assimilate everything I’d learned at the sweat lodge. I was half a day into my first fast. And now I was
contemplating going to one of the most sacred events of the whole tradition, one that would certainly be
rich in symbols and history and language that would be completely lost on me.

Which made it even scarier that I *did* have something I thought I might want to ask at the shaking
tent. There was something that had been bothering me for months, maybe years. What was my name?

I of course already had a name, Nathanael, on which I’d been getting along tolerably well for 28 years.
(Not only that, I also had a fun pen name that I’d been using on my drifting scrap of cyberspace for
about half that long.) But at some point it began to gall at me. It worked fine as a way to get my
attention: long and distinct enough not to get easily confused with common words. (I imagine people with
names like Ann and Will must constantly be turning their heads when people say “And...” or “I will.”)
But when I looked at my name any closer, it seemed more and more like a perfect symbol of the culture
I grew up with and all the reasons I became disillusioned from it.

For one, it meant nothing in any language I knew how to speak. In this it showed that American culture
was two degrees removed from any real home-grown sense of belonging to the world. On the first degree,
its opacity of meaning is accepted as perfectly normal by everyone I meet day to day. We don’t talk
about name meanings around here, really. Practically the only time I’ve gotten in a conversation about
name meanings without being the nerdy etymologist who started it, it was with another guy named
Nathanael. Names aren’t supposed to have any deeper meaning, the sentiment seems to go; they’re just
a collection of sounds people use to summon you. The idea that a name should *mean* anything is
unfashionable, smelling vaguely of pseudoscience. I at least got a name that, on inspection, *does* have
a meaning. My sympathies are with the legions of kids out there whose parents have given up on meaning
and history entirely and made something up along the pattern /\_ā\_ən/: Jaden, Hayden, Kaden, Kaycen,
Grayson, Kalen, Jaelyn, Braelyn. The present moment, the surfaces of things, that’s all that matters:
that’s the message I get. Looking deeper into anything is an outmoded pursuit. As if there was a meaning
to life!

Below that nihilistic layer, though, we find the second degree of estrangement: even names that do have
meaning are mostly imported from some exotic tradition from a far distant land---usually the Middle East
via the Bible. Half the people you know, if you’re in the U.S., are probably walking around with Hebrew
names, and don’t speak a word of the language. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John; Mary, Margaret, Hannah, Sarah;
the many devotions to El: Micha-El, Samu-El, Jo-El, Gabri-El, Dani-El, El-iZabeth, El-iJah, and yes,
Nathana-El. Or if not from the Bible, names are from elsewhere in antiquity: Alexander (the Great),
Helen (of Troy), (Saint) George (or Zeus Georgos, take your pick), Julia (Cæsar). Or perhaps from our former
next-door neighbors, the Irish: Ceallaigh (Kelly), Eirinn (Erin), Breandáin (Brendan), Caoimhín
(Kevin---I promise). The one faction that seems to be missing is actual English names. There is
a persistent minority of them, but even then, they tend to be holdovers from so long ago that their
meaning is only apparent to a philologist: Edward (Ead-weard, ‘Wealth-Guard’), William (Wil-helm,
‘Helmet of Willpower’, filtered into unintelligibility through French *Guillaume*), Alfred (Ælf-ræd,
‘Advised by Elves’), Audrey (what’s left of Æþel-þryþ, ‘Noble Strength’). Naming kids with real words
understandable at first hearing was common in the day of Beowulf (‘Bee-Wolf’, *i.e.* ‘Bear’), but now
it’s felt to be the domain of hippies and weirdos, and we feel sorry for kids named “Raven” or “Rainy”.
(“Misty” seems to be generally enjoyed, though my favorite Misty reports always getting asked if it’s
short for something. Like what? Mysterio?)

Because this is the case with most European languages, which to some extent share a common stock of
names, we imagine it’s normal, but there are lots of cultures out there where people’s names come right
out and say something. Björk, to her fellow Icelanders, is just ‘Birch’; a Guðmundur is a ‘Good Hand’
(worker) and a Þórsteinn is ‘Thor’s Stone’. Chinese kids are commonly given names than not only say
something, but tie them to some period in the grand cycling drama of Chinese history: 建國 Jiànguó
‘Founding’ and 民主 Mínzhǔ ‘Democracy’ in the early years of the People’s Republic, on up to 奧運 Àoyùn
‘Olympics’ in the years leading up to 2008.[^cd] And in Ojibwe, I’ve never heard of a name that didn’t
have some meaning. Some Anishinaabeg, like Pebaam’s mom, don’t try to translate names to English,
because they always lose something, and often that something---that happy poetic happenstance of
semantic resonances, or a connection to a story---is felt to be crucial. But nonetheless, I believe
I can mention that I’ve met people whose names translate *roughly* to ‘Mackerel Sky’ (Baabiiyaanakwad),
‘Strong-Voice Sky Woman’ (Zoongwegiizhigook), ‘Center of the Earth’ (Nenaakamiginang), and ‘Two-Buffalo
Woman’ (Niizho-mashkode-bizhikiikwe). Just from the English you can tell there’s depth there for the
digging. Not only are these names bound with a real, functioning tradition, it’s a tradition that I had
gotten to know and like, as I’d gotten to know and like the people I’d spent time with who practice it,
and it’s also a tradition that links living people to the living land right where I lived and wanted to
keep living. *That* was a kind of name I wished I could introduce myself with.

[^cd]: China Daily. “China’s History Is Spelled Out in Baby Names.” *China Daily* (web), Jun. 24, 2014.
    <https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2014-06/24/content_17610669.htm>

But asking for a name was, if anything was, clearly a bridge too far. Getting an Ojibwe name isn’t like
when two hoboes travel together and one starts calling the other “Bacon Fat”. An Ojibwe name isn’t just
meaningful, it’s *sacred*. It’s what the spirits know you by. “It is said that before the Naming
Ceremony, the spirits are not able to see the face of the child,” wrote Eddie Benton-Banai. “It is
through this naming act that they look into the face of the child and recognize him as a living
being.”[^eb1] More even than that, it’s a commitment. Pebaamibines explained to me that getting a name
is a rough equivalent of confirmation in the Catholic church. You’re saying, “This I believe.” You’re
committing to live according to the Anishinaabe traditions: to go syruping in the spring and ricing in
the fall, to give back to the Earth in everything you do, to honor the spirits, to be a part of the
community, to embody as best you can the Seven Grandfather Teachings---wisdom, love, respect, courage,
uprightness, humility, truth. A name is not an interesting souvenir to take home and put into
a scrapbook. It was unlikely that I was ready to commit to living by the traditions. I barely even knew
what they *were*.

[^eb1]: Benton-Banai, Edward. *The Mishomis Book*, p. 9. Minneapolis, Minn.: University of Minnesota
    Press, 2010 (1988).

Not to mention, where did I get off thinking I had the right? I mean to say, here’s some random white
guy from Ohio who suddenly turns up on the doorstep, and he thinks learning a little of the language
makes it fine for him to be a full-fledged participant in not just a fast but a *shaking tent*, and now
to ask for a *name*! There are people born and raised Ojibwe, now well into middle age and further, who
don’t have Ojibwe names, because colonialism has torn the culture asunder so thoroughly that they don’t
know an elder who can give one---and here’s a guy who grew up part of that very colonialism, and after
under a year of once-weekly language tables, plus a little skulking around at a sugarbush and half
a fast, he wants to go right on ahead and ask for a name, the mark of a spiritually full member of this
ancient culture! Talk about white privilege! White people already have the vast majority of this
continent’s land, money, and material resources, but it’s not enough for this guy---he wants the people
to share their tradition with him too!

All the same, I couldn’t stop thinking about it. I sat there on the granite shore of my little island,
and my mind couldn’t seem to go anywhere but back to the idea of a name. Rationally, it seemed obvious
that asking for a name was unjustifiable. But anytime I dismissed the thought, soon enough it came right
back and circled around my head some more.

This wasn’t a whim I had just come up with. I’d felt ill at ease with my given name for years. It had
started niggling at least a little as far back as the traumatic month when I gave up Christianity, then
remembered that I had a devotion to its god right there in the back two letters of my name. Back at
sugarbush I had asked Pebaam to tell me more about Ojibwe names, and at his suggestion I’d asked a few
people who carried them what the names meant to them; I’d learned a lot that way. Before that, in other
parts of my life, I’d invited people to nickname me many times for years; on one occasion I spent
a whole week at a gathering of rewilders without giving anyone my name, hoping that some new name would
catch on, but one never did.

And I was pretty sure my participation in the tradition wasn’t the overstep it might seem to someone
without the full story. I had come quite a ways into the culture, but everywhere I’d been, I’d been
invited: invited to sugarbush, invited to the sweat lodge, invited to fast, invited to the shaking tent.
I didn’t beg and plead my way in; I certainly didn’t *pay*. And I wasn’t doing these things out of
detached anthropological interest, so I could eventually write a monograph on the exotic Ojibwa’s most
colorful spectacles. I was participating in all this because I really did want to learn, to let it
change me, and I was prepared to work for my teachings, including spending four days with no food or
water---albeit on a beautiful island in a clear blue lake. And even asking for a name wouldn’t be that
far out of the usual here at Nigigoonsiminikaaning: Brandon and Liz, neither one Ojibwe by birth, had
both gotten names at PaShawOneeBinace’s shaking tent, Brandon on his very first fast.

Even all that hardly seemed to justify as big a step as requesting a name, though. Not for a beginner
like me. By the time night fell, I had reached no conclusion.

When I woke up the next morning, my mind lost no time continuing to reel and spin with the same
question. But I was able to set it aside for the day and leave it in a state of unsettledness. A fast
is, among other things, a time to let go of thoughts and trust feelings. I resolved not to try so hard
to think today, and just see what happened. In mid-morning I found, somewhat to my surprise, that I had
scrounged up (from my pack and the woods) the materials to make the gift I would need to bring
PaShawOneeBinace if I wanted to ask something. I was making it just in case. If I decided not to ask,
I would be fine and have an extra gift. But if I did convince myself it was okay, I’d better have
something ready. And anyway I didn’t have a whole lot else going on. When Pebaamibines came by that
evening to pick me up, I had a completed wallhanging, a birchbark cutout of a northern pike on
cloth---PaShawOneeBinace’s clan, the Great Northern Pike clan---and I brought it along. Just in case.

On the way, we picked up all the other fasters. Once we got to Ralph’s peninsula and didn’t have to talk
over engine noise, I decided to see if I would get anything out of talking the decision over with other
people. I asked Brandon about getting his name on his very first fast. “I was a baby,” he said, just
starting to learn Ojibwe traditions, having ended up in a circle of Ojibwe friends after his Lakota
mentor passed on. “Ojibwe people get names when they’re babies, so I decided I’d start out at the same
place.” Misty, I knew, had been considering asking for a name too, and I talked about how much of
a commitment it was---the seasonal harvests, the giving back to the Earth, all of it. “All things you
would like to do anyhow,” they[^mad] pointed out, and I realized it was true. I hadn’t been on this path
long, but I’d already seen enough to know that I got a lot out of following it, and I wanted to keep
learning. I’d come to the conclusion a while ago that if it seemed like a defensible thing to do, I’d
probably ask for a name eventually. I just wanted to feel more deserving first, follow the path longer.
That, though, might be going about it all backwards: I was a baby now; maybe I should get a name, and
then do the work to deserve it. Once you have a name, it all *matters*. Until then, it’s easy to keep
stalling and nap by the side of the path instead of following it where it leads.

[^mad]: Misty uses gender-neutral *they--them* pronouns.

But as conclusive as all that might sound, I wasn’t convinced. There was someone more integral whose
opinion I wanted to know.

I went up to PaShawOneeBinace where he was sitting, at the edge of the same clearing where we’d had the
sweat lodge. I told him I was thinking of asking something at the shaking tent. I explained to him that
I wasn’t Anishinaabe, didn’t grow up that way, but I was thinking of asking for a name. “Do you think
that’s a good idea?”

“I think that’s a *great* idea,” he said immediately, smiling. “Every person in this world has
a spirit helper. Getting to know that spirit helper is one of the best things you can do to clarify
your spiritual path.”

Not just invited, but enthusiastically invited. Part of me had quietly hoped for a flat refusal, so my
life would go on just as it had always been, and I could go on being unaccountable. But now it seemed
I had nothing left to convince myself *not* to ask for a name.

There was little left to do before asking besides the physical aspects of the ceremony. With little idea
what I was making, I helped PaShawOneeBinace and Stacy build the shaking tent. We dug seven holes in the
sand, describing a circle not four feet across; we put seven sapling posts in them, and bound the posts
all together with bent wooden hoops. We wrapped all that with a blanket around the top half, and
surrounded the bottom half in a roll of birchbark. PaShawOneeBinace hung some small things on
top---hooves, I think, and some pieces of rolled tin like on a traditional jingle dress---and
the *jiisakaan* was finished. It was a tapering cylinder, big enough for one human, open at the top for
the spirits to come in.

There were about ten of us there in the clearing, and evening was falling. We went in turns asking our
questions a first time to PaShawOneeBinace human to human, outside the tent. Everything was done in
Anishinaabemowin; for those of us who didn’t speak it, Pebaam’s brother Dan was there to interpret for
us. I gave him my small, humble gift, feeling impossibly inadequate. I told him I was going to ask to
know my name and clan. I had done most of my agonizing over the name, but wherever a name goes a clan
usually goes with it, and I knew if I asked for one I would ask for the other. The clan is a little like
a last name, except that each clan comes with spiritual responsibilities. People in the Pike clan, like
Ralph, are called to be philosophers; the Bear clan to be healers; the Loon and Crane clans to be
leaders; the Marten clan to be warriors. I finished talking and stumbled through the night to the sandy
clearing to wait.

In the dark we shared around the food we’d brought. (Someone had brought wild rice and blueberries for
me to quickly put together beforehand for my contribution to the feast.) Even those of us fasting
partook; this meal wasn’t for us, it was for the spirits. PaShawOneeBinace told us some things I was
glad I didn’t know until then. The person who goes in the shaking tent, he said, is risking his life.
People have been known not to come out at the end. Even presuming he did come out, he’d been taught that
each ceremony takes time off his own life. But he valued us, and all humanity, and this ceremony, plenty
enough to go in anyhow. And then he lifted up the roll of birchbark around the bottom, crawled in, and
slid the birchbark back down.

The simplest understanding of the shaking tent is that there are a vast multitude of spirits out there
who you’re asking your questions of, and amid the cacophony the one who serves as an interpreter for
them is an immensely old one called Mishiikenh, the Turtle. When the spirits are invited into the tent,
all of them can be heard talking, most in no recognizable language. And when they come in, they shake
the tent around, violently, until it looks like it might take flight. The *jaasakiid*,[^prt] the one
running the ceremony, asks the supplicants’ questions, and from this chaos comes an answer.

[^prt]: Those who haven’t studied Ojibwe grammar won’t find it obvious that this word is related to
    *jiisakaan*, the word for the tent itself. That word is a noun form of *jiisakii*, a verb meaning
    ‘hold a shaking tent ceremony’. *Jaasakiid* is a participle---‘one who *jiisakii*s’---derived by
    a suffix and a regular vowel change (a phenomenon we have in English, but irregularly and only on the
    last syllable rather than the first: *outgrow, outgrew*). 

There was very little prelude or prologue. PaShawOneeBinace called out that he was ready, and the first
person went up to the *jiisakaan*. They knelt down at the front of the tent, where a tiny hole had been
cut in the bottom of the birchbark scrim and aligned with the largest pole, a cedar sapling. They took
a handful of tobacco in their left hand and held it against the pole. Then they asked their question,
with Dan close behind translating into Anishinaabemowin.

Then a storm seized the tent. It shook back and forth, the hooves and jingles clinking. That noise was
joined suddenly by the strange voices of the spirits. Some squeaked, some rumbled. They all seemed to
talk at once. They came in a kind of rhythm, in quick waves, and they shook the tent wildly. It seemed
like it would come apart at any moment; it could barely contain everything happening
inside it. One voice carried the thread. Sometimes it resolved into a word I could understand, but
mostly, they say, Mishiikenh speaks very ancient Anishinaabemowin, full of words rarely heard anymore.
The *jiisakaan* was tiny, but it expanded to fill my entire awareness. It seemed to take up the entire
clearing, or the entire peninsula, and to be lit with a light not from any physical source, a light not
even really visible to the eye but to the spirit. It was thunder and lightning, and it was gathered
millennia.

And then suddenly it stopped. And it was just a strange cylindrical structure on the sand in a clearing.
PaShawOneeBinace talked with the supplicant and Dan, making sure everything was understood. The person
thanked him, and stood up, and came back to sit with everyone else.

The questions everyone asked that night are a private matter, as are their answers, and I won’t recount
them. I was nearly last in line, so I watched as the tent shook for people who wanted dreams
interpreted, life guidance, advice on how to carry out a ceremony. Misty was right before me. More in
touch with their feelings than me, Misty had decided to ask for a name with much less interference from
academic questions. When the tent stopped shaking and Dan and PaShawOneeBinace had clarified together,
Dan announced: “Your Ojibwe name is <span class="small-caps">Mekade</span>. And your clan is the white
horse with black spots---<span class="small-caps">Bebezhigoganzhii</span>.” And since this was a naming:
“Now everyone has to greet you, ‘Boozhoo, Mekade!’ ” So Mekade went around the circle, and everyone
greeted them with the new name, and it was stuck on, bound in, for good.

My heart hammered as if trying to escape. It was so real yet so unreal to be here. I crouched down and
held tobacco against the cedar pole. Dan helped me ask my question again. The tent shook and the
spirits’ voices rushed down and tumbled into the tent and I felt like I was inside a stormcloud alive
with lightning. For that span of time there was just me and the *jiisakaan*, and the *jiisakaan* was the
universe. And then it fell silent.

Breath and heartbeats fast and shallow, I waited while PaShawOneeBinace and Dan clarified what had been
said, and then Dan told me: “Your Ojibwe name is <span class="small-caps">Waabanang-inini</span>.”

“Did you hear his clan?” PaShawOneeBinace asked. I had heard a little: the word *ogimaa* over and
over---‘leader’---though I didn’t realize it was connected to that question. “Your clan is the crane,”
Dan said once it was clear. “<span class="small-caps">Ajijaak</span>.”

I got up, so dazed I nearly forgot to thank them, and went around the circle greeting everyone as they
told me, “Boozhoo, Waabanang-inini!” I felt like a stranger on a new planet, experiencing powerful déjà
vu with the faces of people I’d once known a lifetime ago. Flashbulbs were going off somewhere. In the
end I made it back to my spot on the ground. Waabanang-inini. Morning Star Man. I had no idea how to
understand it, but that was my name, that was me. I dizzily pondered over it through the last person’s
question, and then PaShawOneeBinace emerged, still alive this time, and had us take down the tent.
A clock somewhere told us it was after two in the morning.

Is it possible to interpret all this as a cheap parlor trick? Of course it is. Man claims ability to
talk to spirits, man goes inside little tent, man takes questions, man shakes little tent and talks in
funny voices, crowd says wow. But I’m not interested in that interpretation. 

For one thing, shaking tents have a history far weirder and more inexplicable than what I was aware of
seeing that night. Around the 1930s a *jaasakiid* held a shaking tent where some skeptical white men
were present, who insisted it wasn't the spirits shaking the tent but the *jaasakiid*. So when it was
time to start, he put only his coat inside the tent, at which point it started shaking immediately, and
continued shaking for the length of the ceremony even though the *jaasakiid* was sitting outside
it.[^vd1] In 1879 a Canadian Mountie came to visit a medicine man, walking into his tipi. The medicine
man disregarded him completely, and the two sat in darkness for a while, until suddenly the tipi began
shaking violently. The medicine man was sitting completely still, and the tipi was made of “a dozen long
poles crossed at the top, wide apart at the bottom and covered with heavy buffalo robes making it
impossible to lift one side, as I now witnessed, for these teepees are built so that no ordinary wind
could blow them over.” When it stopped the Mountie ran outside to see who was shaking it, and found nothing but
an empty plain in bright moonlight. He came back in and it started rocking again, “this time so
violently that it sometimes lifted several feet on one side so that both myself and the interpreter
could plainly see outside.”[^vd2] In 1848, a Canadian painter couldn’t sleep for the sound of a shaking
tent ceremony, and went out through the pitch dark camp to see it. As soon as he lay down to watch,
unseen by the attendees, at the outside of the circle, the *jaasakiid* stopped the ceremony, and from
inside the quite opaque tent called out that a white man was there who shouldn’t be.[^vd3] Sometime before
1850, a *jaasakiid* named Catherine Wabose told about her experience inside the shaking tent, and
it was not her doing the shaking:

> ...I went in, taking only a small drum. I immediately knelt down, and holding my head near the ground
> in a position, as near as may be, prostrate, began beating my drum, and reciting my songs or
> incantations. The lodge commenced shaking violently by supernatural means. I knew this by the
> compressed current of air above, and the noise of motion. This being regarded by me and by all without
> as proof of the presen[ce] of the spirits I consulted, I ceased beating and singing, and lay still,
> waiting for questions, in the position I had at first assumed.[^vd4]

[^vd1]: Deloria, Vine. *The World We Used to Live In*, p. 95. Golden, Colo.: Fulcrum Publishing, 2006.

[^vd2]: *ibid.*, p. 98.

[^vd3]: *ibid.*, pp. 93--94.

[^vd4]: *ibid.*, p. 96.

But even leaving aside the issue of just who’s talking and shaking the tent, there’s a more basic reason
that I’m not interested in explaining the ceremony away as trickery. It’s just this: I’ve gotten to know
PaShawOneeBinace a little. And he’s not trying to put one over on anybody. Everything that happened
there, he believes sincerely. In this he joins centuries of *jaasakiiwaad*[^jpl] before him, including
the one who, later, renounced “his former pagan practices” and converted to Christianity---but even on
his deathbed, when a man who’d seen him thirty years prior asked him to finally reveal the trick,
told him,

> “I know it, my uncle. [...] I have become a Christian, I am old, I am sick, I cannot live much longer,
> and I can do no other than speak the truth. Believe me, I did not deceive you at the time. I did not
> move the lodge. It was shaken by the power of the spirits. I only repeated to you what the spirits
> said to me. I heard their voices. The top of the lodge was full of them, and before me the sky and
> wide lands lay expanded. I could see a great distance about me, and believed I could recognize the
> most distant objects.”[^vd4]

[^jpl]: Plural form. (Being a participial verb form, this pluralizes very differently from the usual
    *-(a)g* endings for animate nouns.)

[^vd4]: *ibid.*, p. 101. 

And if there’s no trickster, there’s no trick.

In this regard it seems the simplicity of PaShawOneeBinace’s lodge stands almost as a challenge. In
former centuries, it seems to say, people could be convinced that something supernatural was happening
if they saw a phenomenon they couldn’t explain rationally. In these latter days, now that we have magic
everywhere---rectangles in our pockets that can summon (what purports to be) all the world’s knowledge
in an instant---and it’s all rationally explained, those who will gain the reward of understanding that
the world is permeated with strange spirits are those who will toss out the idea of looking for the
trapdoor, the dove up the sleeve, and realize that the true magic lies in getting swallowed up by the
storm. Why explain thunder when you can experience what it’s like to be thunder?

You can say that PaShawOneeBinace must’ve put himself in some kind of hypnotic trance state, and you
might even be right. And you’d certainly also be entirely missing the point. “You could as well say that
a poem is explained by saying that it consists of black marks on paper,” wrote Greer of a similar
situation: “a true statement, but one that misses most of what’s meaningful about the phenomenon.”[^cg2]
Coming to people when they’re in states like that, open to the spirits like the top of the *jiisakaan*;
grabbing hold of their imagination and taking it to new places---this is *how* the spirits communicate.
If we take it as established---as I think we can---that “spirit” and “consciousness” are basically
synonyms, it follows that spirits aren’t, for the most part, going to communicate with you through
physical acts like knocking over plates and rattling chains (although they may shake the occasional
tent). Rather, they’ll be there in your imagination, where your consciousness runs freest, waiting for
you to leave a path open to the more sober, calculating parts of your mind, where you can see them
clearer and talk about them. PaShawOneeBinace opened a path that night wide enough for all of us to
communicate with the spirits, if we allowed ourselves to.


[^cg2]: Greer, *op. cit.*

* * *

* [Contents]({% post_url 2020-03-19-m-rundown %})
* *Back to* [Deep Island, pt. 7: Introductions]({% post_url 2020-03-19-g-introductions %})
* *On to* **[Deep Island, pt. 9: Lost and Found]({% post_url 2020-03-19-i-lost-found %})**
